[[page 1]]
Section I: FOIA Leadership and Applying the Presumption of Openness

The guiding principle underlying the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) 2022 FOIA Guidelines is
the presumption of openness. The Guidelines also highlight the importance of agency
leadership in ensuring effective FOIA administration. Please answer the following
questions about FOIA leadership at your agency and describe the steps your agency has
taken to ensure that the presumption of openness is being applied to all decisions
involving the FOIA.

A. Leadership Support for FOIA

   1. The FOIA requires each agency to designate a Chief FOIA Officer who is a senior
      official at the Assistant Secretary or equivalent level. See 5 U.S.C. § 552(j)(1)
      (2018). Is your agency’s Chief FOIA Officer at or above this level? Yes.

   2. Please provide the name and title of your agency’s Chief FOIA Officer.

      Rebecca Tolene, Executive Vice President and General Counsel

   3. What steps has your agency taken to incorporate FOIA into its core mission? For
      example, has your agency incorporated FOIA milestones into its strategic plan

      TVA’s mission is to serve the people of the Tennessee Valley. TVA’s business
      model is based on partnerships with the region’s citizens, communities and
      local power companies. Public input, public participation, and the sharing of
      information are foundational to TVA’s development and implementation of
      strategic plans and policy decisions. TVA is committed to transparency with the
      public in all that we do. This includes public participation in integrated resource
      planning, public meetings of the TVA Board of Directors, listening sessions with
      the public, two federally chartered advisory councils, working groups and task
      forces with stakeholder members, community and neighborhood meetings in
      local communities, public participation through processes under the National
      Environmental Policy Act, and ﬁnancial reporting and ﬁlings with the U.S.
      Securities and Exchange Commission, in addition to compliance with the
      Freedom of Information Act.

B. Presumption of Openness

   4. DOJ's 2022 FOIA Guidelines provides that “agencies should confirm in response
      letters to FOIA requesters that they have considered the foreseeable harm standard
      when reviewing records and applying FOIA exemptions.” Does your agency provide
      such confirmation in its response letters? Yes.

[[page 2]]
   5. In some circumstances, agencies may respond to a requester that it can neither
      confirm nor deny the existence of requested records if acknowledging the existence
      of records would harm an interest protected by a FOIA exemption. This is
      commonly referred to as a Glomar response. If your agency tracks Glomar
      responses, please provide:

          a. the number of times your agency issued a full or partial Glomar response
             during Fiscal Year (FY) 2025 (please separate full and partial Glomar
             responses if possible);

                   i. TVA did not issue any Glomar responses in FY 2025.

          b. the number of times a Glomar response was issued by exemption during FY
             2025 (e.g., Exemption 7(C) – 20 times, Exemption 1 – 5 times).

                   i. TVA did not issue any Glomar responses in FY 2025.

   6. Optional -- If there are any other initiatives undertaken by your agency to ensure that
      the presumption of openness is being applied, please describe them here.

       All records responsive to FOIA requests undergo thorough review to maximize
       disclosure of information. Internal agency materials subject to Exemption 5 are
       withheld only when a determination of foreseeable harm has been made.

Section II: Ensuring Fair and Effective FOIA Administration

DOJ's 2022 FOIA Guidelines provide that “[e]nsuring fair and effective FOIA administration
requires . . . proper training, and a full understanding of FOIA obligations by the entire
agency workforce.” The Guidelines reinforce longstanding guidance to “work with FOIA
requesters in a spirit of cooperation.” DOJ also “urge[s] agency Chief FOIA Officers to
undertake comprehensive review of all aspects of their agency’s FOIA administration” as
part of ensuring fair and effective FOIA administration.

A. FOIA Training

   1. The FOIA directs agency Chief FOIA Officers to ensure that FOIA training is offered
      to agency personnel. See 5 U.S.C. § 552(a)(j)(2)(F). Please describe the efforts your
      agency has undertaken to ensure proper FOIA training is made available and used
      by agency personnel.

       During FY25, TVA’s FOIA professionals completed both virtual and in-person
       training sessions provided by the Office of Information Policy. In addition, the
       FOIA team hosted an informational webinar accessible to all agency personnel.

[[page 3]]
  2. Did your FOIA professionals, or other personnel at your agency with FOIA
     responsibilities, attend substantive FOIA training during the reporting period, such
     as training provided by the Department of Justice? Yes.

  3. If yes, please provide a brief description of the type of training attended or
     conducted and the topics covered.

     TVA hosted an on-site, in-person training provided by the Department of
     Justice. Topics covered included Achieving Transparency Through Proactive
     Disclosures, FOIA Procedural Requirements, FOIA Exemptions Overview and
     the FOIA and Privacy Act Interface.

  4. Please provide an estimate of the percentage of your FOIA professionals and staff
     with FOIA responsibilities who attended substantive FOIA training during this
     reporting period. 100%

  5. OIP has directed agencies to “take steps to ensure that all of their FOIA
     professionals attend substantive FOIA training at least once throughout the year.” If
     your response to the previous question is that less than 80% of your FOIA
     professionals attended training, please explain your agency’s plan to ensure that all
     FOIA professionals receive or attend substantive FOIA training during the next
     reporting year. N/A

  6. Describe any efforts your agency has undertaken to inform non-FOIA professionals
     of their obligations under the FOIA. In particular, please describe how often and in
     what formats your agency provides FOIA training or briefings to non-FOIA staff, and
     if senior leaders at your agency received a briefing on your agency’s FOIA resources,
     obligations and expectations during the FOIA process.

     TVA’s FOIA Response Team conducted an informational FOIA webinar that was
     open to all agency personnel. Additionally, individual and small group training
     was provided periodically to TVA leaders, record custodians and other non-
     FOIA professionals by the FOIA Officer and TVA’s FOIA support attorneys.

B. Outreach

  7. As part of the standard request process, do your FOIA professionals proactively
     contact requesters concerning complex or voluminous requests in an effort to
     clarify or narrow the scope of the request so requesters can receive responses
     more quickly? Please describe any such outreach or dialogue and, if applicable,
     any specific examples.

[[page 4]]
      When a request cannot be processed within the simple track, TVA notifies the
      requester of the unusual circumstances and seeks an opportunity to discuss
      potential modifications that would allow for quicker processing.

   8. Outside of the standard request process or routine FOIA Liaison or FOIA Requester
      Service Center interactions, did your FOIA professionals engage in any outreach or
      dialogue with the requester community or open government groups regarding your
      administration of the FOIA? For example, did you proactively contact frequent
      requesters, host FOIA-related conference calls with open government groups, or
      provide FOIA training to members of the public? Please describe any such outreach
      or dialogue and, if applicable, any specific examples of how this dialogue has led to
      improvements in your agency’s FOIA administration.

      TVA uses multiple methods of outreach to communicate with stakeholders and
      the communities we serve. We utilize a regional external relations and
      communications model to leverage all areas of TVA to gain insights from and
      bring value to external stakeholders. These include customers, communities,
      elected officials, economic development stakeholders, public interest groups
      and civic organizations, some of whom make FOIA requests. TVA is dedicated to
      working with its stakeholders to proactively provide information and listen to
      feedback on TVA actions and issues of interest, including engaging in dialogue
      with non-governmental organizations, among others, to help explain TVA’s
      determinations on their requests and to provide explanatory information on TVA
      actions.

   9. The FOIA Improvement Act of 2016 requires additional notification to requesters
      about the services provided by the agency’s FOIA Public Liaison. Please provide an
      estimate of the number of times requesters sought assistance from your agency’s
      FOIA Public Liaison during Fiscal Year 2025 (please provide a total number or an
      estimate of the number for the agency overall).

      10-15 times (estimated)

C. Other Initiatives

   10. Has your agency evaluated the allocation of agency personnel resources needed to
       respond to current and anticipated FOIA demands? If so, please describe what
       changes your agency has or will implement.

      TVA completed a comprehensive, cross-functional review of its FOIA program
      including an assessment of the existing programmatic state, a review of the
      organizational structure, alignment of legal support, benchmarking of similar
      agencies, and the use of technology. A business case proposal for the redesign
      of the FOIA program was approved which led to programmatic changes that

[[page 5]]
       established a dedicated FOIA Response Team to improve timeliness of
       responses and reduce the backlog of FOIA requests.

   11. How does your agency use data or processing metrics to ensure efficient
       management of your FOIA workload? For example, case management reports, staff
       processing statistics, etc. In addition, please specifically highlight any data
       analysis methods or technologies used.

       In addition to the quarterly and annual statistical reports required by FOIA, the
       FOIA Officer distributes a weekly report to the Chief FOIA Officer and other key
       personnel. This report provides an overview of new requests received and a
       summary of the requests that were completed. TVA’s primary measure is
       response time and back log, which is analyzed through our case management
       system.

   12. Optional -- If there are any other initiatives undertaken by your agency to ensure fair
       and effective FOIA administration, please describe them here.

       TVA engaged in an Request for Proposal (RFP) to secure a new case
       management system which utilizes new technologies to help improve
       efficiencies in FOIA processing.

Section III: Proactive Disclosures

DOJ's 2022 FOIA Guidelines emphasize that “proactive disclosure of information is
... fundamental to the faithful application of the FOIA.” The Guidelines direct agencies to
post “records online quickly and systematically in advance of any public request” and
reiterate that agencies should post records “in the most useful, searchable, and open
formats possible.”

   1. Please describe what steps your agency takes to identify, track, and post (a)(2)
      proactive disclosures.

       The FOIA Officer routinely reviews TVA’s FOIA Reading Room and updates it with
       new information as it becomes available.

   2. Does your agency post logs of its FOIA requests? No.

   3. If so, what information is contained in the logs? N/A

   4. Are they posted in CSV format? If not, what format are they posted in? N/A

[[page 6]]
5. Please provide a link to the page where any FOIA logs are posted. If applicable,
   please provide component links. N/A

6. Provide examples of any material (with links) that your agency has proactively
   disclosed during the past reporting year, including records that have been
   requested and released three or more times in accordance with 5 U.S.C. §
   552(a)(2)(D).

   TVA did not have any material that was requested and released three or more
   times in accordance with 5 U.S.C. § 552(a)(2)(D).

   Information that was proactively disclosed includes, but is not limited to, the
   following:

       a. TVA Board of Directors meetings agendas, presentations, recaps,
          streaming video, approved resolutions and other Board resources -
          Board of Directors

       b. TVA’s 2025 Integrated Resource Plan process - Integrated Resource Plan

       c. TVA Financial reports - TVA - SEC Filings

       d. TVA Strategic Plan - Strategic Plan

7. Please provide a link (or component links, if applicable) where your agency routinely
   posts its frequently requested records.

       a. Reading Room

       b. Reports

       c. Board of Directors

8. Beyond posting new material, is your agency taking steps to make the posted
   information more useful to the public, especially to the community of individuals
   who regularly access your agency’s website? If yes, please provide examples of
   such improvements, such as steps taken to post information in open and machine-
   readable formats. If your agency is not taking steps to make posted information
   more useful, please explain why.

   We are committed to ensuring that the external TVA website is accessible to all
   users, including those with special needs, and we are continuously
   implementing improvements to increase accessibility. In 2023, TVA began
   applying User Interface / User Experience (UI/UX) design research and

[[page 7]]
      principles to further engage our audiences and accelerate improvements
      targeting their needs.

   9. Does your proactive disclosure process or system involve any collaboration with
      agency staff outside the FOIA office, such as IT or data personnel? If so, describe
      this interaction.

      TVA’s FOIA Response Team collaborates with internal business units to identify
      and prepare proactive disclosures related to FOIA. Additionally, TVA’s
      Communications organization supports other TVA units in reviewing and
      publishing information on the agency’s website (www.tva.com).

   10. Optional -- Please describe the best practices used to improve proactive
       disclosures and any challenges your agency faces in this area.

      The FOIA Response Team regularly engages with internal business units to
      emphasize the importance of proactive disclosure and its role in promoting
      transparency and compliance.

Section IV: Steps Taken to Make Better Use of Technology

A key component of FOIA administration is using technology to make information available
to the public and to gain efficiency in FOIA processing. DOJ's 2022 FOIA
Guidelines emphasize the importance of making FOIA websites easily navigable and
complying with the FOIA.gov interoperability requirements. Please answer the following
questions to describe how your agency is using technology to improve its FOIA
administration and the public's access to information.

   1. Has your agency reviewed its FOIA-related technological capabilities to identify
      resources needed to respond to current and anticipated FOIA demands?

      Yes. We participated in a Request for Proposal (RFP) process to acquire a new
      case management system designed to leverage advanced technologies and
      enhance efficiency.

   2. Please briefly describe any new types of technology your agency uses to support
      your FOIA program.

      In 2025, TVA acquired a new case management system to streamline the
      administration of our FOIA program.

   3. Does your agency currently use any technology to automate request intake,
      customer service, or record processing? For example, does your agency use
      artificial intelligence or other tools to conduct searches or make redactions? If so,

[[page 8]]
      please describe and, if possible, estimate how much time and financial resources
      are saved since implementing the technology?

      TVA is currently evaluating opportunities to utilize technology to automate
      record processing, including Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI).

   4. OIP issued guidance in 2017 encouraging agencies to regularly review their FOIA
      websites to ensure that they contain essential resources and are informative and
      user-friendly. Has your agency reviewed its FOIA website(s) during the reporting
      period to ensure it addresses the elements noted in the guidance? Yes.

   5. Did all four of your agency's quarterly reports for Fiscal Year 2025 appear on
      FOIA.gov? Yes.

   6. If your agency did not successfully post all quarterly reports on FOIA.gov, please
      explain why and provide your agency’s plan for ensuring that such reporting is
      successful in Fiscal Year 2026. N/A

   7. The FOIA Improvement Act of 2016 requires all agencies to post the raw statistical
      data used to compile their Annual FOIA Reports. Please provide the link to this
      posting for your agency’s Fiscal Year 2024 Annual FOIA Report and, if available, for
      your agency’s Fiscal Year 2025 Annual FOIA Report.

      Freedom of Information Act Reports Annual Report Data

   8. In February 2019, DOJ and OMB issued joint Guidance establishing interoperability
      standards to receive requests from the National FOIA Portal on FOIA.gov. Are all
      components of your agency in compliance with the guidance? Yes.

   9. Optional -- Please describe your agency best practices in better utilizing technology
      and any challenges your agency faces in this area.

      In 2025, TVA acquired a new case management system to streamline the
      administration of our FOIA program, and we are currently evaluating
      opportunities to leverage Artificial Intelligence (AI) to enhance communication
      with requesters and assist in the record management process.

Section V: Steps Taken to Remove Barriers to Access, Improve Timeliness in
Responding to Requests, and Reduce Backlogs

DOJ's 2022 FOIA Guidelines instruct agencies “to remove barriers to requesting and
accessing government records and to reduce FOIA processing backlogs.” Please answer
the following questions to describe how your agency is removing barriers to access,
improving timeliness in responding to requests, and reducing FOIA backlogs.

[[page 9]]
A. Remove Barriers to Access

   1. Has your agency established alternative means of access for any categories of first-
      party requested records, outside of the typical FOIA or Privacy Act process?

      Some ﬁrst-party requests may be made directly to agency record holders.

   2. If yes, please provide examples. If no, please indicate why not. Please also indicate
      if you do not know.

      TVA has established processes for Privacy Act requests as detailed in 18 CFR
      Part 1301 and processes through which individuals may request information
      related to them, such as employment or personnel records. Additionally, TVA
      provides a dedicated process for requesters to obtain 26a permits directly
      through the Public Land Information Center (PLIC).

   3. Please describe any other steps your agency has taken to remove barriers to
      accessing government information.

      In its role as regulator, TVA has established a Complaint Resolution Process
      that serves as a dispute resolution resource to address issues or complaints
      between local power companies and their customers.

B. Timeliness

   4. For Fiscal Year 2025, what was the average number of days your agency reported for
      adjudicating requests for expedited processing? Please see Section VIII.A. of your
      agency's Fiscal Year 2025 Annual FOIA Report. 9.75

   5. If your agency's average number of days to adjudicate requests for expedited
      processing was more than ten calendar days, according to Section VIII.A. of your
      agency's Fiscal Year 2025 Annual FOIA Report, please describe the steps your
      agency will take to ensure that requests for expedited processing are adjudicated
      within ten calendar days or less. N/A

   6. Does your agency utilize a separate track for simple requests? Yes.

   7. If your agency uses a separate track for simple requests, according to Annual FOIA
      Report section VII.A, was the agency overall average number of days to process
      simple requests twenty working days or fewer in Fiscal Year 2025? Yes.

   8. If not, did the simple track average processing time decrease compared to the
      previous Fiscal Year? N/A

[[page 10]]
  9. Please provide the percentage of requests processed by your agency in Fiscal Year
     2025 that were placed in your simple track. Please use the following calculation
     based on the data from your Annual FOIA Report: (processed simple requests from
     Section VII.C.1) divided by (requests processed from Section V.A.) x 100. 78%

  10. If your agency does not track simple requests separately, was the average number
      of days to process all non-expedited requests twenty working days or fewer? N/A

C. Backlogs

Backlogged Requests

  11. If your agency had a backlog of requests at the close of Fiscal Year 2025, according
      to Annual FOIA Report Section XII.D.2, did that backlog decrease as compared with
      the backlog reported at the end of Fiscal Year 2024? No.

  12. If not, according to Annual FOIA Report Section XII.D.1, did your agency process
      more requests during Fiscal Year 2025 than it did during Fiscal Year 2024? Yes.

  13. If your agency’s request backlog increased during Fiscal Year 2025, please explain
      why and describe the causes that contributed to your agency not being able to
      reduce its backlog. When doing so, please also indicate if any of the following were
      contributing factors:

         a. An increase in the number of incoming requests – Yes.
         b. A loss of staff – Yes.
         c. An increase in the complexity of the requests received (if possible, please
            provide examples or briefly describe the types of complex requests
            contributing to your backlog increase) – Yes. Requests received are
            significantly technical in nature requiring intensive SME and legal
            consultation.
         d. Litigation – Yes.
         e. Any other reasons – please briefly describe or provide examples when
            possible – N/A

  14. If you had a request backlog, please report the percentage of requests that make up
      the backlog out of the total number of requests received by your agency in Fiscal
      Year 2025. Please use the following calculation based on data from your Annual
      FOIA Report: (backlogged requests from Section XII.A) divided by (requests
      received from Section V.A) x 100. This number can be greater than 100%. If your
      agency has no request backlog, please answer with “N/A.” 43.9%

[[page 11]]
Backlogged Appeals

   15. If your agency had a backlog of appeals at the close of Fiscal Year 2025, according
       to Section XII.E.2 of the Annual FOIA Report, did that backlog decrease as
       compared with the backlog reported at the end of Fiscal Year 2024? N/A

   16. If not, according to section XII.E.1 of the Annual FOIA Report, did your agency
       process more appeals during Fiscal Year 2025 than it did during Fiscal Year 2024?
       N/A

   17. If your agency’s appeal backlog increased during Fiscal Year 2025, please explain
       why and describe the causes that contributed to your agency not being able to
       reduce its backlog. When doing so, please also indicate if any of the following were
       contributing factors: N/A

          a. An increase in the number of incoming appeals – N/A
          b. A loss of staff – N/A
          c. An increase in the complexity of the requests received (if possible, please
             provide examples or briefly describe the types of complex requests
             contributing to your backlog increase) – N/A
          d. Litigation – N/A
          e. Any other reasons – please briefly describe or provide examples when
             possible – N/A

   18. If you had an appeal backlog, please report the percentage of appeals that make up
       the backlog out of the total number of appeals received by your agency in Fiscal
       Year 2025. Please use the following calculation based on data from your Annual
       FOIA Report: (backlogged appeals from Section XII.A) divided by (appeals received
       from Section VI.A) x 100. This number can be greater than 100%. If your agency did
       not receive any appeals in Fiscal Year 2025 and/or has no appeal backlog, please
       answer with "N/A." N/A

D. Backlog Reduction Plans

   19. In the 2025 guidelines for Chief FOIA Officer Reports, any agency with a backlog of
       over 1000 requests in Fiscal Year 2024 was asked to provide a plan for achieving
       backlog reduction in the year ahead. Did your agency implement a backlog
       reduction plan last year? If so, describe your agency’s efforts in implementing this
       plan and note if your agency was able to achieve backlog reduction in Fiscal Year
       2025? N/A.

   20. If your agency had a backlog of more than 1,000 requests in Fiscal Year 2025,
       please explain your agency’s plan to reduce this backlog during Fiscal Year 2026.
       N/A.

[[page 12]]
E. Reducing the Age of Requests, Appeals, and Consultations

Ten Oldest Requests

   21. In Fiscal Year 2025, did your agency close the ten oldest pending perfected
       requests that were reported in Section VII.E. of your Fiscal Year 2024 Annual FOIA
       Report? No.

   22. If no, please provide the number of these requests your agency was able to close by
       the end of the fiscal year, as listed in Section VII.E of your Fiscal Year 2025 Annual
       FOIA Report. If you had less than ten total oldest requests to close, please indicate
       that. Six.

   23. Beyond working on the ten oldest requests, please describe any steps your agency
       took to reduce the overall age of your pending requests.

      TVA completed a comprehensive, cross-functional review of its FOIA program
      including an assessment of the existing programmatic state, a review of the
      organizational structure, alignment of legal support, benchmarking of similar
      agencies, and the use of technology. A business case proposal for the redesign
      of the FOIA program was approved which led to programmatic changes that
      established a dedicated FOIA Response Team to improve timeliness of
      responses and reduce the backlog of FOIA requests.

Ten Oldest Appeals

   24. In Fiscal Year 2025, did your agency close the ten oldest appeals that were reported
       pending in Section VI.C.5 of your Fiscal Year 2024 Annual FOIA Report? N/A

   25. If no, please provide the number of these appeals your agency was able to close by
       the end of the fiscal year, as listed in Section VII.C.(5) of your Fiscal Year 2024
       Annual FOIA Report. If you had less than ten total oldest appeals to close, please
       indicate that. N/A

   26. Beyond working on the ten oldest appeals, please describe any steps your agency
       took to reduce the overall age of your pending appeals. N/A

Ten Oldest Consultations

   27. In Fiscal Year 2025, did your agency close the ten oldest consultations that were
       reported pending in Section XII.C. of your Fiscal Year 2024 Annual FOIA Report? N/A

   28. If no, please provide the number of these consultations your agency was able to
       close by the end of the fiscal year, as listed in Section XII.C. of your Fiscal Year 2024

[[page 13]]
      Annual FOIA Report. If you had less than ten total oldest consultations to close,
      please indicate that. N/A

Additional Information Regarding Ten Oldest

   29. If your agency did not close its ten oldest pending requests, appeals, or
       consultations, please explain why and provide a plan describing how your agency
       intends to close those “ten oldest” requests, appeals, and consultations during
       Fiscal Year 2026.

      At the start of FY26, TVA successfully closed the oldest request and plans to
      resolve the remaining three oldest requests during the fiscal year. These
      outstanding requests are highly complex and are currently undergoing
      comprehensive legal and subject matter expert review.

F. Additional Information about FOIA Processing

   30. Were any requests at your agency the subject of FOIA litigation during the reporting
       period? If so, please describe the impact on your agency’s overall FOIA request
       processing and backlog. If possible, please indicate:

          a. The number and nature of requests subject to litigation
          b. Common causes leading to litigation
          c. Any other information to illustrate the impact of litigation on your overall
             FOIA administration

      In 2024, TVA was named in six FOIA lawsuits following an unprecedented surge
      in requests—both in volume and complexity—far exceeding the normal,
      predictable workload. Despite diligent efforts, TVA was unable to process
      these requests within the statutory timeframes outlined in 5 U.S.C. §
      552(a)(6)(A) using existing resources.

      Consequently, five of the lawsuits, all filed by the same plaintiff on separate
      subject matters, were based on constructive exhaustion of administrative
      remedies.

      In response, TVA undertook a comprehensive redesign of its FOIA program to
      better manage the increased demand and reduce backlog. As of 2025, four
      lawsuits remain pending.
