[[page 1]]
TVA 2025 Chief FOIA Officer Report February 18, 2025


Section I: FOIA Leadership and Applying the Presumption of Openness

The guiding principle underlying the Attorney General’s 2022 FOIA Guidelines is the presumption of
openness. The Guidelines also highlight the importance of agency leadership in ensuring effective
FOIA administration. Please answer the following questions about FOIA leadership at your agency
and describe the steps your agency has taken to ensure that the presumption of openness is being
applied to all decisions involving the FOIA.

A. Leadership Support for FOIA

1. The FOIA requires each agency to designate a Chief FOIA Officer who is a senior official at least
at the Assistant Secretary or equivalent level. See 5 U.S.C. § 552(j)(1) (2018). Is your agency’s Chief
FOIA Officer at or above this level? Yes.

2. Please provide the name and title of your agency’s Chief FOIA Officer.

Mr. Buddy Eller, Vice President, Communications, Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA)

3. What steps has your agency taken to incorporate FOIA into its core mission? For example, has
your agency incorporated FOIA milestones into its strategic plan?

TVA’s mission is to serve the people of the Tennessee Valley. TVA’s business model is based on
partnerships with the region’s citizens, communities and local power companies. Public
input, public participation, and the sharing of information are foundational to TVA’s
development and implementation of strategic plans and policy decisions. TVA is committed to
transparency with the public in all that we do. This includes public participation in integrated
resource planning, public meetings of the TVA Board of Directors, listening sessions with the
public, two federally chartered advisory councils, working groups and task forces with
stakeholder members, community and neighborhood meetings in local communities, public
participation through processes under the National Environmental Policy Act, and ﬁnancial
reporting and ﬁlings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, in addition to
compliance with the Freedom of Information Act.

B. Presumption of Openness

4. The Attorney General’s 2022 FOIA Guidelines provides that “agencies should conﬁrm in response
letters to FOIA requesters that they have considered the foreseeable harm standard when reviewing
records and applying FOIA exemptions.” Does your agency provide such conﬁrmation in its
response letters? Yes.

5. In some circumstances, agencies may respond to a requester that it can neither conﬁrm nor
deny the existence of requested records if acknowledging the existence of records would harm an
interested protected by a FOIA exemption. This is commonly referred to as a Glomar response. If
your agency tracks Glomar responses, please provide:

   •   the number of times your agency issued a full or partial Glomar response during Fiscal Year
       (FY) 2024 (separate full and partial if possible); 0. TVA did not issue any Glomar responses
       in FY 2024.

[[page 2]]
TVA 2025 Chief FOIA Officer Report February 18, 2025


   •   the number of times a Glomar response was issued by exemption during FY 2024 (e.g.,
       Exemption 7(C) – 20 times, Exemption 1 – 5 times). 0. TVA did not issue any Glomar.
       responses by exemption in FY 2024.

6. Optional -- If there are any other initiatives undertaken by your agency to ensure that the
presumption of openness is being applied, please describe them here. All records responsive to
FOIA requests are carefully reviewed to ensure that as much information as possible is
disclosed. In particular, internal agency information subject to exemption 5 is withheld only if
a foreseeable harm exists.

Section II: Ensuring Fair and Effective FOIA Administration

The Attorney General’s 2022 FOIA Guidelines provide that “[e]nsuring fair and effective FOIA
administration requires . . . proper training, and a full understanding of FOIA obligations by the
entire agency workforce.” The Guidelines reinforce longstanding guidance to “work with FOIA
requesters in a spirit of cooperation.” The Attorney General also “urge[s] agency Chief FOIA Officers
to undertake comprehensive review of all aspects of their agency’s FOIA administration” as part of
ensuring fair and effective FOIA administration.

A. FOIA Training

1. The FOIA directs agency Chief FOIA Officers to ensure that FOIA training is offered to agency
personnel. See 5 U.S.C. § 552(a)(j)(2)(F). Please describe the efforts your agency has undertaken to
ensure proper FOIA training is made available and used by agency personnel. TVA’s FOIA
professionals participate in training offered by the Office of Information Policy and
organizations such as the American Society of Access Professionals each year.

2. Did your FOIA professionals or the personnel at your agency who have FOIA responsibilities
attend substantive FOIA training during the reporting period such as that provided by the
Department of Justice? Yes.

3. If yes, please provide a brief description of the type of training attended or conducted and the
topics covered.

Topics covered in virtual training included best practices, procedural requirements and fees
and fee waivers. In addition, TVA’s Manager, Compliance and TVA’s primary FOIA Attorney
held informational training sessions with key agency personnel including a session with the
Chief FOIA Officer, the FOIA Officer, and the FOIA Public Liaison. Topics included an overview
of FOIA and the FOIA Improvement Act of 2016, information that is available under FOIA,
response timelines and fees, and an update on the current assessment of the FOIA program.

4. Please provide an estimate of the percentage of your FOIA professionals and staff with FOIA
responsibilities who attended substantive FOIA training during this reporting period. 100%.

5. OIP has directed agencies to “take steps to ensure that all of their FOIA professionals attend
substantive FOIA training at least once throughout the year.” If your response to the previous
question is that less than 80% of your FOIA professionals attended training, please explain your
agency’s plan to ensure that all FOIA professionals receive or attend substantive FOIA training
during the next reporting year. N/A.

[[page 3]]
TVA 2025 Chief FOIA Officer Report February 18, 2025


6. Describe any efforts your agency has undertaken to inform non-FOIA professionals of their
obligations under the FOIA. In particular, please describe how often and in what formats your
agency provides FOIA training or brieﬁngs to non-FOIA staff; and if senior leaders at your agency
received a brieﬁng on your agency’s FOIA resources, obligations and expectations during the FOIA
process? Individual and small group training is provided periodically to TVA leaders, records
custodians and other non-FOIA professionals by the FOIA Officer and TVA’s primary FOIA
attorneys.

B. Outreach

7. As part of the standard request process, do your FOIA professionals proactively contact
requesters concerning complex or voluminous requests in an effort to clarify or narrow the scope of
the request so requesters can receive responses more quickly? Please describe any such outreach
or dialogue and, if applicable, any speciﬁc examples. Any time a request is unable to be
processed within the simple track we notify the requester of the unusual circumstances and
ask for an opportunity to discuss ways their request could be modiﬁed in order to be
processed more quickly.

8. Outside of the standard request process or routine FOIA Liaison or FOIA Requester Service
Center interactions, did your FOIA professionals engage in any outreach or dialogue, with the
requester community or open government groups regarding your administration of the FOIA? For
example, did you proactively contact frequent requesters, host FOIA-related conference calls with
open government groups, or provide FOIA training to members of the public? Please describe any
such outreach or dialogue and, if applicable, any speciﬁc examples of how this dialogue has led to
improvements in your agency’s FOIA administration. agency’s FOIA administration.

TVA uses multiple methods of outreach to communicate with stakeholders and the
communities we serve. We utilize a regional external relations and communications model to
leverage all areas of TVA to gain insights from and bring value to external stakeholders. These
include customers, communities, elected officials, economic development stakeholders,
public interest groups and civic organizations, some of whom make FOIA requests. TVA is
dedicated to working with its stakeholders to proactively provide information and listen to
feedback on TVA actions and issues of interest, including engaging in dialogue with non-
governmental organizations, among others, to help explain TVA’s determinations on their
requests and to provide explanatory information on TVA actions.

9. The FOIA Improvement Act of 2016 requires additional notiﬁcation to requesters about the
services provided by the agency’s FOIA Public Liaison. Please provide an estimate of the number of
times requesters sought assistance from your agency’s FOIA Public Liaison during Fiscal Year 2024
(please provide a total number or an estimate of the number for the agency overall). Four times
(estimated).

C. Other Initiatives

10. Has your agency evaluated the allocation of agency personnel resources needed to respond to
current and anticipated FOIA demands? If so, please describe what changes your agency has or
will implement. TVA recently completed a comprehensive cross-functional review of its FOIA

[[page 4]]
TVA 2025 Chief FOIA Officer Report February 18, 2025


program including a current state assessment, a review of the organizational structure to
better align with legal support, benchmarking of similar agencies and the use of technology. A
business case proposal for a redesign of the FOIA program is currently under review for ﬁnal
approval. We anticipate that the outcome of this redesign will lead to programmatic changes
that will allow for knowledge transfer and succession planning for TVA’s FOIA program and will
provide a dedicated FOIA response team to improve timeliness of responses and reduce the
backlog of FOIA requests.

11. How does your agency use data or processing metrics to ensure efficient management of your
FOIA workload? For example, case management reports, staff processing statistics, etc. In
addition, please speciﬁcally highlight any data analysis methods or technologies used. In addition
to the quarterly and annual statistical reports required by FOIA, the FOIA Officer distributes a
weekly report to the Chief FOIA Officer, TVA’s primary FOIA attorney, and other key personnel.
This report provides a copy of the new requests received and a summary of the requests that
were completed. TVA’s primary measure is response time and back log, which is analyzed
through our automated tracking system database.

12. The federal FOIA Advisory Committee, comprised of agency representatives and members of
the public, was created to foster dialogue between agencies and the requester community, solicit
public comments, and develop recommendations for improving FOIA administration. Since 2020,
the FOIA Advisory Committee has issued a number of recommendations. Please answer the below
questions:

   •   Is your agency familiar with the FOIA Advisory Committee and its recommendations? Yes.

   •   Has your agency implemented any of its recommendations or found them to be helpful? If
       so, which ones? During this reporting period, TVA developed and began using updated
       FOIA determination letters and response templates with improved standard language
       (2024-01). In 2020, TVA began using an automated database to track FOIA requests and
       responses and for reporting (2020-21, 2020-22). TVA pro-actively posts records and
       information of interest to its stakeholders daily on the external TVA website (2022-07).

13. Optional -- If there are any other initiatives undertaken by your agency to ensure fair and
effective FOIA administration, please describe them here.

Section III: Proactive Disclosures

The Attorney General’s 2022 FOIA Guidelines emphasize that “proactive disclosure of information is
. . . fundamental to the faithful application of the FOIA.” The Guidelines direct agencies to post
“records online quickly and systematically in advance of any public request” and reiterate that
agencies should post records “in the most useful, searchable, and open formats possible.”

1. Please describe what steps your agency takes to identify, track, and post (a)(2) proactive
disclosures. The FOIA Officer regularly reviews TVA’s FOIA Reading Room and posts updates
and new information as it becomes available.

2. Does your agency post logs of its FOIA requests? No.

   •   If so, what information is contained in the logs? N/A.

[[page 5]]
TVA 2025 Chief FOIA Officer Report February 18, 2025


   •   Are they posted in CSV format? If not, what format are they posted in? N/A.

   •   Please provide a link to the page where any FOIA logs are posted. If applicable, please
       provide component links. N/A.

3. Provide examples of any material (with links) that your agency has proactively disclosed during
the past reporting year, including records that have been requested and released three or more
times in accordance with 5 U.S.C. § 552(a)(2)(D). TVA did not have any material that was
requested and released three or more times in accordance with 5 U.S.C. § 552(a)(2)(D).

Information that was proactively disclosed includes, but is not limited to, the following:

TVA Board of Directors meetings agendas, presentations, recaps, streaming video, approved
resolutions and other Board resources - https://www.tva.com/about-tva/our-
leadership/board-of-directors

TVA’s 2025 Integrated Resource Plan process - https://www.tva.com/environment/integrated-
resource-plan

TVA Financial reports - https://tva.q4ir.com/ﬁnancial-information/sec-ﬁlings/default.aspx

TVA Strategic Plan - fy-2022---2026-strategic-plan5be28920-60e0-4839-b86b-608794f85519.pdf
(azureedge.net)

4. Please provide a link (or component links, if applicable) where your agency routinely posts its
frequently requested records. https://www.tva.com/information/freedom-of-information/reading-
room. https://www.tva.com/about-tva/reports. https://www.tva.com/about-tva/our-
leadership/board-of-directors.

5. Beyond posting new material, is your agency taking steps to make the posted information more
useful to the public, especially to the community of individuals who regularly access your agency’s
website? If yes, please provide examples of such improvements, such as steps taken to post
information in open and machine readable formats. If not taking steps to make posted information
more useful, please explain why. We are committed to ensuring that the TVA external website is
accessible to all users, including those with special needs, and we are continuously
implementing improvements to increase accessibility. In 2023, TVA began applying User
Interface / User Experience (UI/UX) design research and principles to further engage our
audiences and accelerate improvements targeting their needs.

6. Does your proactive disclosure process or system involve any collaboration with agency staff
outside the FOIA office, such as IT or data personnel? If so, describe this interaction. The FOIA
Office works with the business units within TVA to identify and prepare any FOIA-related
proactive disclosures. TVA’s Communications organization assists other TVA organizations in
reviewing and posting information on the TVA website (www.tva.com).

7. Optional -- Please describe the best practices used to improve proactive disclosures and any
challenges your agency faces in this area.

[[page 6]]
TVA 2025 Chief FOIA Officer Report February 18, 2025




Section IV: Steps Take to Greater Utilize Technology

A key component of FOIA administration is using technology to make information available to the
public and to gain efficiency in FOIA processing. The Attorney General’s 2022 FOIA
Guidelines emphasize the importance of making FOIA websites easily navigable and complying
with the FOIA.gov interoperability requirements. Please answer the following questions to describe
how your agency is using technology to improve its FOIA administration and the public's access to
information.

1. Has your agency reviewed its FOIA-related technological capabilities to identify resources
needed to respond to current and anticipated FOIA demands? Yes. We recently completed a
comprehensive review of TVA’s FOIA program including a review of the current use of
technology and how to increase usage for future efficiencies.

2. Please brieﬂy describe any new types of technology your agency uses to support your FOIA
program. TVA began subscribing to an automated tracking system for FOIA requests in 2020.

3. Does your agency currently use any technology to automate record processing? For example,
does your agency use machine learning, predictive coding, technology assisted review or similar
tools to conduct searches or make redactions? If so, please describe and, if possible, estimate
how much time and ﬁnancial resources are saved since implementing the technology. TVA is
currently evaluating opportunities to utilize technology to automate aspects of record
processing.

4. OIP issued guidance in 2017 encouraging agencies to regularly review their FOIA websites to
ensure that they contain essential resources and are informative and user-friendly. Has your
agency reviewed its FOIA website(s) during the reporting period to ensure it addresses the elements
noted in the guidance? Yes.

5. Did all four of your agency's quarterly reports for Fiscal Year 2024 appear on FOIA.gov? Yes.

6. If your agency did not successfully post all quarterly reports on FOIA.gov, please explain why and
provide your agency’s plan for ensuring that such reporting is successful in Fiscal Year 2025. N/A.

7. The FOIA Improvement Act of 2016 requires all agencies to post the raw statistical data used to
compile their Annual FOIA Reports. Please provide the link to this posting for your agency’s Fiscal
Year 2023 Annual FOIA Report and, if available, for your agency’s Fiscal Year 2024 Annual FOIA
Report. https://www.tva.com/information/freedom-of-information/freedom-of-information-
act-reports

8. In February 2019, DOJ and OMB issued joint Guidance establishing interoperability standards to
receive requests from the National FOIA Portal on FOIA.gov. Are all components of your agency in
compliance with the guidance? Yes.

9. Optional -- Please describe the best practices used in greater utilizing technology and any
challenges your agency faces in this area.

[[page 7]]
TVA 2025 Chief FOIA Officer Report February 18, 2025


Section V: Steps Taken to Remove Barriers to Access, Improve Timeliness in Responding to
Requests, and Reduce Backlogs

The Attorney General’s 2022 FOIA Guidelines instruct agencies “to remove barriers to requesting
and accessing government records and to reduce FOIA processing backlogs.” Please answer the
following questions to describe how your agency is removing barriers to access, improving
timeliness in responding to requests, and reducing FOIA backlogs.

A. Remove Barriers to Access

1. Has your agency established alternative means of access to ﬁrst-party requested records,
outside of the typical FOIA or Privacy Act process? Some ﬁrst-party requests may be made
directly to agency record holders.

2. If yes, please provide examples. If no, please indicate why not. Please also indicate if you do not
know. TVA has established processes for Privacy Act requests as detailed in 18 CFR Part 1301
and processes through which individuals may request information related to them, such as
employment or personnel records.

3. Please describe any other steps your agency has taken to remove barriers to accessing
government information. In its role as regulator, TVA has established a Complaint Resolution
Process that serves as a dispute resolution resource to address issues or complaints between
local power companies and their customers.



B. Timeliness

4. For Fiscal Year 2024, what was the average number of days your agency reported for adjudicating
requests for expedited processing? Please see Section VIII.A. of your agency's Fiscal Year 2024
Annual FOIA Report. Ten days.

5. If your agency's average number of days to adjudicate requests for expedited processing was
above ten calendar days, according to Section VIII.A. of your agency's Fiscal Year 2024 Annual FOIA
Report, please describe the steps your agency will take to ensure that requests for expedited
processing are adjudicated within ten calendar days or less. N/A.

6. Does your agency utilize a separate track for simple requests? Yes.

7. If your agency uses a separate track for simple requests, according to Annual FOIA Report
section VII.A, was the agency overall average number of days to process simple requests twenty
working days or fewer in Fiscal Year 2024? TVA’s average number of days to process simple
requests was 15.42.

8. If not, did the simple track average processing time decrease compared to the previous Fiscal
Year? N/A.

9. Please provide the percentage of requests processed by your agency in Fiscal Year 2024 that
were placed in your simple track. Please use the following calculation based on the data from your

[[page 8]]
TVA 2025 Chief FOIA Officer Report February 18, 2025


Annual FOIA Report: (processed simple requests from Section VII.C.1) divided by (requests
processed from Section V.A.) x 100. 65%

10. If your agency does not track simple requests separately, was the average number of days to
process all non-expedited requests twenty working days or fewer? N/A.

C. Backlogs

Backlogged Requests

11. If your agency had a backlog of requests at the close of Fiscal Year 2024, according to Annual
FOIA Report Section XII.D.2, did that backlog decrease as compared with the backlog reported at
the end of Fiscal Year 2023? Yes.

12. If not, according to Annual FOIA Report Section XII.D.1, did your agency process more requests
during Fiscal Year 2024 than it did during Fiscal Year 2023? N/A.

13. If your agency’s request backlog increased during Fiscal Year 2024, please explain why and
describe the causes that contributed to your agency not being able to reduce its backlog. When
doing so, please also indicate if any of the following were contributing factors:

   •   An increase in the number of incoming requests N/A

   •   A loss of staff N/A

   •   An increase in the complexity of the requests received (if possible, please provide examples
       or brieﬂy describe the types of complex requests contributing to your backlog increase) N/A

   •   Litigation N/A

   •   Any other reasons – please brieﬂy describe or provide examples when possible N/A

14. If you had a request backlog, please report the percentage of requests that make up the backlog
out of the total number of requests received by your agency in Fiscal Year 2024. Please use the
following calculation based on data from your Annual FOIA Report: (backlogged requests from
Section XII.A) divided by (requests received from Section V.A) x 100. This number can be greater
than 100%. If your agency has no request backlog, please answer with “N/A.” 13%

Backlogged Appeals

15. If your agency had a backlog of appeals at the close of Fiscal Year 2024, according to Section
XII.E.2 of the Annual FOIA Report, did that backlog decrease as compared with the backlog
reported at the end of Fiscal Year 2023? Yes.

16. If not, according to section XII.E.1 of the Annual FOIA Report, did your agency process more
appeals during Fiscal Year 2024 than it did during Fiscal Year 2023? N/A.

17. If your agency’s appeal backlog increased during Fiscal Year 2024, please explain why and
describe the causes that contributed to your agency not being able to reduce its backlog. When
doing so, please also indicate if any of the following were contributing factors:

   •   An increase in the number of incoming appeals N/A

[[page 9]]
TVA 2025 Chief FOIA Officer Report February 18, 2025


   •   A loss of staff N/A

   •   An increase in the complexity of the requests received (if possible, please provide examples
       or brieﬂy describe the types of complex requests contributing to your backlog increase) N/A

   •   Litigation N/A

   •   Any other reasons – please brieﬂy describe or provide examples when possible N/A

18. If you had an appeal backlog please report the percentage of appeals that make up the backlog
out of the total number of appeals received by your agency in Fiscal Year 2024. Please use the
following calculation based on data from your Annual FOIA Report: (backlogged appeals from
Section XII.A) divided by (appeals received from Section VI.A) x 100. This number can be greater
than 100%. If your agency did not receive any appeals in Fiscal Year 2024 and/or has no appeal
backlog, please answer with "N/A." N/A.

D. Backlog Reduction Plans

19. In the 2024 guidelines for Chief FOIA Officer Reports, any agency with a backlog of over 1000
requests in Fiscal Year 2023 was asked to provide a plan for achieving backlog reduction in the year
ahead. Did your agency implement a backlog reduction plan last year? If so, describe your
agency’s efforts in implementing this plan and note if your agency was able to achieve backlog
reduction in Fiscal Year 2024? N/A.

20. If your agency had a backlog of more than 1,000 requests in Fiscal Year 2024, please explain
your agency’s plan to reduce this backlog during Fiscal Year 2025. N/A.

E. Reducing the Age of Requests, Appeals, and Consultations

Ten Oldest Requests

21. In Fiscal Year 2024, did your agency close the ten oldest pending perfected requests that were
reported in Section VII.E. of your Fiscal Year 2023 Annual FOIA Report? TVA closed 10 of 10
requests reported as pending at the end of Fiscal Year 2023.

22. If no, please provide the number of these requests your agency was able to close by the end of
the ﬁscal year, as listed in Section VII.E of your Fiscal Year 2023 Annual FOIA Report. If you had less
than ten total oldest requests to close, please indicate that. N/A.

23. Beyond work on the ten oldest requests, please describe any steps your agency took to reduce
the overall age of your pending requests. TVA recently completed a comprehensive cross-
functional review of its FOIA program including a current state assessment, a review of the
organizational structure to better align with legal support, benchmarking of similar agencies
and the use of technology. We anticipate that the outcome of this review will lead to
programmatic changes that will reduce the overall age of pending requests.

Ten Oldest Appeals

24. In Fiscal Year 2024, did your agency close the ten oldest appeals that were reported pending in
Section VI.C.5 of your Fiscal Year 2023 Annual FOIA Report? Yes.

[[page 10]]
TVA 2025 Chief FOIA Officer Report February 18, 2025


25. If no, please provide the number of these appeals your agency was able to close by the end of
the ﬁscal year, as listed in Section VII.C.(5) of your Fiscal Year 2023 Annual FOIA Report. If you had
less than ten total oldest appeals to close, please indicate that. N/A.

26. Beyond work on the ten oldest appeals, please describe any steps your agency took to reduce
the overall age of your pending appeals. N/A.

Ten Oldest Consultations

27. In Fiscal Year 2024, did your agency close the ten oldest consultations that were reported
pending in Section XII.C. of your Fiscal Year 2023 Annual FOIA Report? TVA had no consultations
pending at the end of FY 23 or FY 24.

28. If no, please provide the number of these consultations your agency was able to close by the
end of the ﬁscal year, as listed in Section XII.C. of your Fiscal Year 2023 Annual FOIA Report. If you
had less than ten total oldest consultations to close, please indicate that. N/A.

Additional Information Regarding Ten Oldest

29. If your agency did not close its ten oldest pending requests, appeals, or consultations, please
explain why and provide a plan describing how your agency intends to close those “ten oldest”
requests, appeals, and consultations during Fiscal Year 2025. N/A.

F. Additional Information about FOIA Processing

30. Were any requests at your agency the subject of FOIA litigation during the reporting period? If
so, please describe the impact on your agency’s overall FOIA request processing and backlog. If
possible, please indicate:

   •   The number and nature of requests subject to litigation

   •   Common causes leading to litigation

   •   Any other information to illustrate the impact of litigation on your overall FOIA
       administration

TVA is the subject of six FOIA lawsuits initiated in 2024. TVA recently experienced a deluge of
FOIA requests in both volume and complexity and beyond the normal predictable workload of
requests. Despite due diligence, TVA could not deal with the volume and complexity of such
requests within the time limits of 5 U.S.C. § 552(a)(6)(A) with existing resources . As a result,
ﬁve lawsuits are premised on constructive exhaustion of administrative remedies. These ﬁve
lawsuits were brought by the same plaintiff but on different subject matters. TVA has been
actively planning and re-designing its FOIA program to handle the new volume of complex
FOIA requests and to reduce its backlog.
