[[page 1]]
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BOARD

  ofthe CITYofWESTMORELAND

       Annual Financial Report

   For the Year Ended June 30, 2025

[[page 2]]
                                         INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BOARD

                                              of the CITY of WESTMORELAND


                                                         Table of Contents
                                                                                                                        Page Number


INTRODUCTORY SECTION

Board of Officials ................. ... . . . .. . . ...... .... . ... .. .. .. . . .. .

FINANCIAL SECTION:

Independent Auditor's Report ............... ........ . .... . .. ... . . .. .. ... .                                           1-3

Management's Discussion and Analysis .... . ... . . . .... . . . ... . ... . .. .. . . . . .                                    4-6

BASIC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:

Government-Wide Financial Statements
 Statement ofNet Positon ......... . . .... . ............ . . .. . . .. .. . . . .. . . . . .                                    8
 Statement of Activities ............. . . ... .. .. .... .... .. . . .. . . . ... . . . .. . .                                   9

FUND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:

Balance Sheet - General Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             11

Reconciliation of Balance Sheet to Statement ofNet Position of Governmental Activities                                           12

Statement ofRevenues, Expenditures, and Changes in Fund Balance- Governmental Fund                                               13

Reconciliation of the Statement of Revenues, Expenditures, and Change in Fund Balance
of Governmental Fund to the Statement of Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            14

Notes to Financial Statements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         16-20

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:

   Schedule of Cash and Cash Equivalents ...................... .... .. .... . .                                                22
   Schedule of Changes in Long-term Debt by Individual Issue .. . .. .. .. . . .. .. .. .                                       23

[[page 3]]
                                INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BOARD

                                    of the CITY of WESTMORELAND

                                       Table of Contents, Continued


INTERNAL CONTROL AND COMPLIANCE:

 Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and on Compliance and Other
   Matters Based on an Audit of Financial Statements Performed
   in Accordance with Government Auditing Standards . ..................... . .                 25-26

Schedule of Findings and Responses .......... . . ... . .. . .. .. .... . .. . . . . . .. . .     27

Schedule of Disposition of Prior Year Comments . . . .. .. ........ .. ... . . . . . . . . .      28

Management's Corrective Action Plan . . .. .. . . . ........ . .. . .. . ....... . ... . . .      29

[[page 4]]
INTRODUCTORY SECTION

[[page 5]]
                           INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BOARD

                             of the CITY of WESTMORELAND


                                    Board Members

                                     June 30, 2025 ·




Andy Leath                                          Board Member

Mary Gail Anderson                                  Board Member

Stephen Bell                                        Board Member

Fredia Carter                                       Board Member

Larry Meadors                                       Board Member

Tony Bentle                                         Board Member

Jacqueline Robertson                                Board Member


Management:


Meredith Kendall-Jenkins                            City Recorder, CMFO Candidate

[[page 6]]
FINANCIAL SECTION

[[page 7]]
                            .JOHN            R.     POOLE, CPA
                               CERTIF"IEO PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT

1 34 NORTHLAKE DRIVE                                                                      (615) 822-4177

HENDERSONVILLE, TN 37075




                                          Independent Auditor's Report

      Board of Directors
      Industrial Development Board of the City of Westmoreland
      Westmoreland, Tennessee

                                 Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements

      Opinions
      I have audited the accompanying financial statements of the governmental activities and the major fund of
      the Industrial Development Board of the City of Westmoreland (the "Board"), a component unit of the
      City of Westmoreland, Tennessee as of and for the year ended June 30, 2025, and the related notes to the
      financial statements, which collectively comprise the Board's basic financial statements as listed in the
      table of contents.

     In my opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
     respective financial position of the governmental activities and the major fund of the Board as of June 30,
     2025, and the respective budgetary comparison for the General Fund and the respective changes in
     financial position for the year then ended in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in
     the United States of America.

     Basis for Opinions
     I conducted my audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
     America and the standards applicable to financial audits contained in the Government Auditing Standards,
     issued by the Comptroller General of the United States. My responsibilities under those standards arc
     further described in the Auditor's Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of my
     report. I am required to be independent of the Board and to meet my other ethical responsibilities, in
     accordance with the relevant ethical requirements relating to my audit. I believe that the audit evidence I
     have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my audit opinions.

     Responsibilities of Management for the Financial Statements
     Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in
     accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and for the
     design, implementation, and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation and fair
     presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
     In preparing the financial statements, management is required to evaluate whether there are conditions or
     events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the Board;s ability to continue as a
     going concern for twelve months beyond the financial statement date, including any currently known
     information that may raise substantial doubt shortly thereafter.

[[page 8]]
 Auditor's Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
 My objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are
 free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that inc] udes
 my opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not absolute assurance and therefore
 is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and
 Government Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. The risk of not
 detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud
 may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal
 control. Misstatements are considered material if there is a substantial likelihood that, individually or in
 the aggregate, they would influence the judgement made by a reasonable user based on the financial
 statements.

 In performing an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and Government Auditing
 Standards, I:

     •!• Exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit.
     •!• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to
         fraud or error, and design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks. Such procedures
          include examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial
         statements.
    •!• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures
         that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
         effectiveness ofthe Board's internal control. Accordingly, no such opinion is expressed.
    •!• E aluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonabl ness of significant
         accounting estimates made by management, as well as e aluate the overall presentation of the
         financial statements.
    •!• Conclude whether, in my judgment, there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate,
         that raise substantial doubt about the Board's ability to continue as a going concern for a reasonable
         period oftime.

I am required to communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the
planned scope and timing of the audit, significant audit findings, and certain internal control-related matters
that I identified during the audit.

Required Supplementary Information
 Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America require that the Required
 Suppl mentary Information which includes Management's Discussion and Analysis, be presented to
supplement the basic financial statements. Such information is the responsibility of management and,
although not a part of the basic financial statements, is required by the Governmental Accounting Standards
Board who considers it to be an essential part of financial reporting for placing the basic financial
statements in an appropriate operational, economic, or historical context. I have applied certain limited
procedures to the required supplementary information in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America, which consisted of inquiries of management about the methods
of preparing the information and comparing the information for consistency with management's responses
to my inquiries, the basic financial statements, and other knowledge I obtained during my audit of the basic
financial statements. I do not express an opinion or provide any assurance on the information because the


                                                      2

[[page 9]]
 limited procedures do not provide us with sufficient evidence to express an opinion or provide any
 assurance.

 Supplementary Information
 My audit was conducted for the purpose of forming opinions on the financial statements that collectively
comprise the Board's basic financial statements. The supplementary information section, as listed in the
table of contents, is presented for purposes of additional analysis and is not a required part of the basic
financial statements. Such information is the responsibility of management and was derived from and
relates directly to the underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the basic financial
statements. The information has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic
financial statements and certain additional procedures, including comparing and reconciling such
information directly to the underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the basic financial
statements or to the basic financial statements themselves, and other additional procedures in accordance
with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. In my opinion, the
supplementary information is fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the basic financial
statements as a whole.

Other Information -Introductory Section

Management is responsible for the Introductory Section included in the annual report. The Introductory
Section, as listed in the table of contents, does not include the basic financial statements and my auditor's
report thereon. My opinion on the basic financial statements does not cover the Introductory Section, and
I do not express an opinion or any other assurance thereon.

In connection with my audit of the basic financial statements, my responsibility is to read the Introductory
S ction and consider wheth r a material inconsistency exists bet een the Introductory Section and basic
financial stat ments, or the Introductory Section otherwise app ars to be materially misstated. If, based on
the work performed, I conclude that an uncorrected material misstatement of the Introductory Section
exists, I am required to describe it in my report.

Other Reporting Required by Government Auditing Standards
In accordance with Government Auditing Standards, I have also issued my report dated November 30,
2025, on my consideration of the Board's internal control over financial reporting and on my tests of its
compliance with certain provisions of laws, regulations, contracts and grant agreements and other matters.
The purpose of that report is solely to describe the scope of my testing of internal control over financial
reporting and compliance and the results fthat testing, and not to provide an opinion on the effectiveness
of the Board' internal control over financial reporting or on compliance. That rep011 is an integral part of
an audit performed in accordance with Government uditing Standards in consid ring the Board s internal
control over financial reporting and compliance.




November 30, 2025



                                                     3

[[page 10]]
MANAGEMENT'S
DISCUSSION AND
   ANALYSIS

[[page 11]]
                  Industrial Development Board of the City of Westmoreland

                             Management's Discussion and Analysis

As management of the Industrial Development Board of the City of Westmoreland, (the Board)
we offer readers of the Board's financial statements this narrative overview and analysis of the
financial activities of the Board for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025. The analysis focuses on
significant financial position, budget changes and variances from the budget, and specific issues
related to funds and the economic factors affecting the Board.

Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) focuses on current year activities and resulting
changes.

Financial Highlights:

The assets of the Industrial Development Board of the City of Westmoreland exceeded its
liabilities at the close of the most recent fiscal year by $752,317. The Board's total net position
increased by $179,779 during the current year, primarily as a result of higher rental revenues and
decreased repair and maintenance expenses.

Overview of the Financial Statements:

The Statement of Net position presents information on all the Board's assets and liabilities, with
the difference between the two reported as net position. Over time, increases or decreases in net
position may serve as a useful indicator of whether the financial position of the Board is improving
or deteriorating.

The Statement of Revenues Expenses and Changes in Net Position pr sents infonnation showing
how the Board's net position changed duringth most recent fiscal year. All changes in net position
are reported as soon as the underlying event giving rise to the chang occurs, regardless of the
timing of related cash flows. Thus, revenues and expenses are reported in this statement for some
items that will only result in cash flows in future fiscal periods.

The basic financial statements can be found on pages g_c of this report. The notes provid
add itional information that is essential to a full understanding ofth data provided in the financial
statements. The notes to the financial statements can be found on pages 16-20 of this report.




                                                 4

[[page 12]]
 Financial Analysis of the Financial Statements

As noted earlier, net position may serve over time as a useful indicator of the Board's financial
position. In the case of the Industrial Development Board ofthe City of Westmoreland, the ending
net position was $752,317.

By far the largest portion of the Board's assets reflects its investment in capital assets. The Board
uses these capital assets to provide services to its customers; consequently, these assets are not
available for future spending. Although the Board's investment in its capital assets is reported net
of related debt, it should be noted that the resources needed to repay this debt must be provided
from other sources, since the capital assets themselves cannot be used to liquidate these liabilities.

Industrial Development Board ofthe City of Westmoreland's Net Position- 2025

Current assets                         $   121,075
Capital assets, net                        631,242
       Total assets                        752.317

Liabilities                                          0

Net position:
Net investment in capital assets           631,242
                Unrestricted               121,075
Total net position                    $    752.317

Industrial Development Board of the City of Westmoreland's Net Position- 2024

Current assets                        $    285 538
Capital assets, net                        500.181
       Total assets                        785.719

Liabilities                                213.181

Net position:
Net investment in capital assets           287,000
                Unrestricted               285,538
Total net position                    $    572,538




                                                 5

[[page 13]]
Capital Assets

The Industrial Development Board of the City of Westmoreland's investment in capital assets from
its activities at June 30, 2025, amounts to $631,242 (net of accumulated depreciation). This
investment in capital assets is in communications equipment and vehicles.

                                                    2024                        2025
Capital assets                                    854,091                     1.030,950
Less accumulated depreciation                    (353,910)                    (399,708)
Net Capital Assets                               5.QQ..l81                     631.242

Additional information on the Industrial Development Board of the City ofWestmoreland's capital
assets can be found in the notes to the financial statements section of this report.

Long-term Debt

The Board paid off its loan of $213,181, which was used to make improvements. All loans are
paying as scheduled.

Economic Factors and Next Year's Budget and Rates

In the 2025 -2026 budget, Board revenues are budgeted to increase from the 2024-2025 budget
year primarily due to increases in rental income. All of these factOTs were considered in preparing
the Board's budget for the 2025-2026 fiscal year.

Requests for Information

This financial report is designed to provide a general overview of the Board's finances for all those
with an interest in the Board's finances. Questions concerning any of the information provided in
this report or requests for additional financial information should be addressed to:



Industrial Development Board of the City of Westmoreland
P. 0. Box 8
Westmoreland, TN. 37186




                                                 6

[[page 14]]
BASIC FINANCIAL
  STATEMENTS

[[page 15]]
                                             INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BOARD of the CITY OF WESTMORELAND
                                                                  Statement of Net Position
                                                                        June 30, 2025




Assets                                                                                                      Total

Cash and cash equivalents                                          $121,075                                $121,075

Capital assets, net of accumulated depreciation                     631,242                                 631,242

      Total Assets                                                 $752,317                                $752,317

Liabilities
Accounts payable                                                            0                                       0

         Total Liabilities                                                  0                                       0

Net Position:
  Investment in capital assets                                      631,242                                 631,242
   Unrestricted                                                     121,075                                 121 ,075
      Total Net Position                                           $752,317                                $752,317




                                                         See accompanying notes to financial statements.




                                                                        8

[[page 16]]
                                   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BOARD of the CITY OF WESTMORELAND

                                                             Statement of Activities

                                                       For the Year Ended June 30,2025




                                                                    Program Revenues         Net (Expenses) Revenue and
                                                                                                Changes in Net Position
                                                                  Operating             Capital
FtmctionfProcrams                                     Charges for Grants and         Grants and     Governmental
                                          Expens es    Services Contributions       Contributions     Activities           Total

General government - Industrial Park        106,260      262,400             0           23,639          179,779          179,779
     Total Governmental Activities          106,260      262,400             0           23,639          179,779          179,779



                                         General Revenues:
                                                     Interest income                                            0                  0
                                                               Total general revenues                           0                  0



                                         Changes in net position                                         179,779          179,779

                                         Net position- beginning of year                                 572,538          572,538

                                         Net position- ending of year                                    752,317          752,317




                                                                    See accompanying notes to financial statements.
                                                                         9

[[page 17]]
FUND FINANCIAL
  STATEMENTS

[[page 18]]
                      INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BOARD of the CITY OF WESTMORELAND

                                                         Balance Sheet

                                                        General Fund

                                                         June 30, 2025


                                                                                                 Operating
                                                                                                  Fund


Cash and cash equivalents                                                                    $      121,075




       Total Assets                                                                          $      121,075

Liabilities and Fund Balance

Liabilities:
  Accounts payable
       Total Liabilities


 Fund balance:

   Unassigned                                                                                      121,075
     Total Fund Balance                                                                            121,075

      Total Liabilities and Fund Balance                                                     $     121,075




              The notes accompanying the financial statements are an integral part of these financial statements.




                                                             11

[[page 19]]
         INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BOARD of the CITY OF WESTMORELAND

                Reconciliation of the Balance Sheet to the Statement of Net Position
                                      of Government Activities

                                            June 30, 2025


Amounts reported for fund balance - total governmental funds                           $   121,075


     Amounts reported for governmental activities in the statement of net
     position are different because the operating funds do not report:

        Capital assets                                                                     631 ,242


Net position of governmental activities                                                $   752,317




                            See accompanying notes to financial statements.




                                                            12

[[page 20]]
                   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BOARD of the CITY OF WESTMORELAND

                                                   Governmental Fund
                            Statement of Revenues, Expenditures and Changes in Fund Balances

                                            For the Year Ended June 30, 2025




Revenues:
  Rental and activities income                                                       $ 262,400
  Donations- City                                                                        23,639
   Total Revenues                                                                       286,039

Expenditures:
  Utilities                                                                                754
  Repairs                                                                               15,495
  Supplies                                                                              10,733
  Professional services                                                                  3,325
  Insurance                                                                             17,946
  Debt service                                                                         225,390
  Capital outlay                                                                       176,859
      Total Expenditures                                                               450,502

      Excess (deficiency) ofRevenues
       over Expenditures                                                               (164,463)



Fund Balance, Beginning of year                                                        285,538

Fund Balance, End of year                                                              121,075




                            See accompanying notes to financial statements.




                                                   13

[[page 21]]
                  INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BOARD of the CITY OF WESTMORELAND

             Reconciliation of the Statement of Revenues, Expenditures and Changes in Fund Balance
                                of Governmental Fund to the Statement of Activities

                                           For the Year Ended June 30,2025


Net change in fund balances -total governmental funds:                                            $   (164,463)



      Amounts reported for governmental activities in the statement of net
      position are different because:


      Operating funds report capital outlays as expenditures. However, in lbe statement
       of activities the cost of those assets is allocated over their stimated useful lives and
       reported as depreciation expense.
         Acquisition of capital assets                                                                176,859
         Depreciation expense                                                                         (45,798)

       Expenses in the operating funds that reduce long-term liabilities are not reported
        in the statement.
          Principal payments                                                                          213,181


Change in net position of governmental activities                                                 $   179,779



                            See accompanying notes to financial statements.




                                                              14

[[page 22]]
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL
     STATEMENTS

[[page 23]]
                            Industrial Development Board of the City of Westmoreland

                                             Notes to Financial Statements

                                                     June 30, 2025

 (1) Summarv of Signilicant Accounting Policies

 The Industrial Development Board of the City of Westmor land (Board) consists of members appointed by ity of
 Westmoreland and Sumner County, Tennessee. As an agency for these govemmental entities the Board has been
 d · l gated the authority to dev lop, operate and maintain an industrial park for the benefit ofthe community. The
 Board was incorporated to receive and administer donated and loan f1mds for construction of buildings in th
 industrial park. The Board began to operate significantly in 2010.

 The accounting policies of the Industrial Development Board of the City of Westmoreland conform to generally
 accepted accounting principl s as applicable to governments. The following is a summary of the more significant
 policies.

Repotting ntity:
Go rnmentaJ Accounting Standards Board (GASB) Statement Number 14, "The Financial Reporting Entity"
requires that finan ial statements present the reporting entity which consists f the primary government and
" omponent Unit" organizations for which the primary government is financially accountable and any olh r
"Component Unit" organizations for which the nature and significance of their relationshjp with the primar
government are Sltch that exclusion, could cau e th Board's general purpo e financial statem nts to be misleadi ng.
There was no component unit requiring blend d or discrete presentation under t he requirements of GASB tatement
Number 14.

Government- W1de and fund Fi nancial Statements
The Government-wide financial statements, the statement of Net Position and the statement of activities report
information on all of the financial activities of the Board.

The statement of activities demonstrates the degree to which the direct expenses of a given function or segment are
off: et by program revenues. Direct expenses are those lbat are clearly id ntifiable with a specific function or. egment.
Program revenues include i charges to customers or app licants who purchase, use or directly benefit from goods,
services or privileges pro ided by a giYen function or segment and ii) grants and contributions that are restricted to
meeting d1e operational or capital requirement of a particular function or segment.

Mcasur ment focus, Basis of Accounting, and FinanciaJ Statement Pres ntation
The government-wide financial statements are reported using th econom ic re ources measurement focus and the
accru~tl basis of accounting. Reven ues are record d when eamed and e,· pen es are recorded when a liability is
incurred, regardless of the timing of related cash flows. Grants and similar items are recognized as revenue as soon
as all eligibility requirements imposed by the provider have been met.

Governmental fund revenues are repm1ed using the current financial resources measurement focus and the modified
accrual basis of accounting. Revenues are recognized as soon as they become both mea urable and collectable within
the current period or soon enough thereafter to be used to pay li abilities of the current period. Expenditmes arc
recorded generally w hen a liability is incurred, as under accrual accounting. However debt service expenditures. :.ts
well as expenditure related to compensated absences and claims and judgnients are recorded only when payment is
due.




                                                          16

[[page 24]]
                            Industrial Development Board of the City of Westmoreland

                                              Notes to Financial Statements

                                                      June 30, 2025

 (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Continued

 The Board reports the following major fund:

 Gen raJ (Operating) Fund - The G · n ral (Operating) Fund is the general operating fund of the Board. It is used to
 account for all financial resources of the general governm nt except those required to be accounted for in another
 fund.

  as h and Cash Equivalents
 Cash ru1d cash equi alents con ist primarily of checking accounts and a mo ney market account. When both restricted
 and unre tricted resources are available for u e, it is the Board s po licy to use restricted resources first then
 umestricted resources as they are needed . When unre t:ricted fu nd arc used the Board us s committed as igned then
 unassigned funds.

CaP- ital Assets
  a.p ital assets, which include property plant and equipment, and infrastructure as ets cons1stmg of c rtain
imp.ro ements other than buildings are reported in the applicable governmental acti ities collmms in the government-
wide financial statements. Capital assets are defined by the Board a assets with an individual cost of $2 000 and an
estimated useful life in excess of three years. All capital assets are valued at historical cost or estimated useful life in
excess of three years. Donated capital assets are valued at their estimated fair value on the date donated. The costs of
normal maintenance and repairs that do not add to the value of the asset or materially extend asset lives are not
capitalized. Depreciation is provided over the estimated useful lives using the straight-line method.

The estimated useful lives are as follows:

        Land improvements                                               10-15 years
        Buildings                                                       25-40 years
        Machinery and Equipment                                          5-10 years

Budget and BudgetaJy Accounting
The Board is not legally required to adopt a budget; therefore, no budget comparison is presented in these financial
statements.

Estimates
The preparation of f:i nancial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires
mMagement to mak estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and lia.bilitie at the date
of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenu s and xpens s during the rep01ting period . Actual
results could differ from those estimates.

Net Po itiou Flow Assumption
Sometimes the government will fund outlays for a particular purpose from botJ1 restricted and unrestrict; d resources.
In order to calculate the amounts to report a restrictt:d - net po ition and unrestricted - net position in the
government- ide financial statements, a flow assumption must be made about the order in which the resources are
cons idered to be applied. It is the Board's policy to consider restricted- net position to have been depleted before
unrestricted- net position is applied.



                                                           17

[[page 25]]
                            Industrial Development Board ofthe City of Westmoreland

                                              Notes to Financial Statements

                                                      June 30, 2025

 (1)     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Continued

 Credit Risk
 F inancial instruments that potentially subject the Board to significant concentrations of credit risk consist principally
 of cash and cash equivalents. The Board places its cash with federally-insured financial institutions or institutions
 participating in the State collateral pool.

 Defened Outflows/Inflows of Resources
 In addition to assets, the tatement of Net Position will ornetimes report a separate section for deferred ouHlo s of
 resources. This separate financial statement element deferred outflows of resources, represents a consumption of ncl
 position that applies to a future period(s and so will not be recognized as an outflow of resources
  expense/expenditure) until then. The go emment has no items that qualify for reporting in this category.

In addition to liabilities, the Statement of Net Position will sometimes report a separate section for deferred inflows
of resources. This separate financial statement element, deferred inflows of resources, represents an acquisition of
net position that applies to a future period(s) and so will not be recognized as an inflow of resource (revenue) until
that time. hese amounts are deferred and recognized as an inflow of resources in the period that the amounts become
available. The government has no items that qualify for reporting in this category.

Fund Balance
The Board implemented GASB 54 which addresses issues related to how fund balances are reported. Fund balances
are now reported in the following manner:

Nonspendable Fund Balance- This classification includes amounts that are (a) not in spendable form, or (b) legally
or contTactually required to be maintained intact. The "not in spendab l form " criterion includes terms that are not
expected to be converted to cash, for example: inventories, prepaid amounts and long-term notes receivable.

Restricted Fund Balance - This classification includes amounts that are restricted for specific purposes stipulated by
external resource providers, constitutionally or through enabling legislation. Restrictions may effectively be changed
or lifted with the consent of resource providers.

Committed Fund Balance - This classification includ s amounts that can only be used for the specific purposes
d termined by a forma l action of the Board s highest level of decision-making authority. Commitments may be
changed or lifted only by the Board taking the same formal action that imposed the constraint originally (for example:
ordinance).

Assigned Fund Balance- This classification incl uded amounts intended to be used b the Board for specific purpo es
that are neither restricted nor committed. The Board and its designee tb Recorder, have the authority to a sign
amounts to be used for specific purposes. Assigned amounts also include all residual amounts in governmental funds
(except negative amounts) that are not classified as nonspendable, restricted, or committed.

Unassigned Fund Balance - This fund balance is the residual classification for the general fund. It is also used to
report negative fund balances in other governmental fu nds.

In circumstances when an expenditure is made for a purpose for which amounts are available in multiple fund balance
classifications, fund balance is depleted in the order of restricted, committed, assigned, and unassigned.


                                                           18

[[page 26]]
                             Industrial Development Board of the City of Westmoreland

                                               Notes to Financial Statements

                                                       June 30, 2025


 (2)     Cash and Cash Equivalents

 The Board is authorized to invest funds in Federal treasury bill and notes, State of Tennessee Local Governm ent
 Inve tmeot Pool and financial institution demand deposit accounts and certificates of deposit. Deposits in financial
 institutions are required by State Statute to be secured and collateralized by the institutions. The Board has d posit
 policies to minimize custodial credit risks. All deposits with financial institutions must be secured by one of two
 methods. One method involves financial institutions that participate in th bank collateral pool administered by the
state treasurer. Participating banks determine the aggregat balance of their public fund accounts for the State of
Tennessee and its political subdivisions. The amount of collateral required to secure these pub I ic deposits must equal
at least 105 percent of the average daily balm1ce of public deposits held. Collatera l securities required to be plcdg d
by the participating banks to protect their public fund a count are pledged to tbe state treasurer on behalf of the bank
collateral pool. The securities pledged to protect these accounts are pledged in the aggregate rather d1an against each
account. The members ofthe pool may be required by agreement to pay an asses ment to cover any deficiency. li nd r
this additional assessment agreement, public fund account covered by th pool are considered to be insured for
purposes of credit risk disclosure.

For deposits with fi.nancial institutions that do not participate in the bank collateral pool, state statutes require that all
deposits be collateralized with collateral whose market value is equal to 105 percent ofthe unin urecl amount of the
depo its. The collatera l must be placed by the depository bank in an escrow account in a second bank for the benefit
of the board. The Board 's deposits with financial institutions are fully insured or collateralized by securitie he I I in
the Board's name. Additionally, the deposit accounts are covered by the Federal Depository Insurance Coverage
(FDIC).


(3)     Capital Assets

A summary of changes in general capital assets as presented in the governmental activities column of the government-
wide financial statements is as follows:

                                         Balance                                                    Balance
                                       July 1.2024           Additions         Deletion          JLme 3(), 2025
Buildings                                350 000                                                    350 000
Improvements                             504,091                 176.859                            680,950
           Total                         854,091                 .l_1_Q 859                       1,030,950

       Accumulated depreciation         (353,910)                                                  (399.708)

            Capital assets - net         500.181                                                    631.242

All assets of the Board are being depreciated. Depreciation expense was $45,798 for the fiscal year end. Accumulated
depreciation was $186,667 for the industrial building, $213,041 for improvements.




                                                            19

[[page 27]]
                               lnd us trial Development Board of the City of Westmoreland

                                                  Notes to Financial Statements

                                                         June 30, 2025

 (4)       Long-Term Debt

A summary of changes in long-term debt as presented in the government-wide financial statements is as follows :

                                        Balance                                             Balance        Due Within
  Notes Payable:                   July 1, 2024          Additions       Retirements   June 30, 2025        One Year


       Building Loan                $     213,181        $               $   213,181    $                  $
                       Total        $     213,181        $               $   213,181   $                   $

The proceeds of the loan were for the purchase of the building and to make improvements to the building. The above
loan payable contains provisions that in the event of default, the lender can use any remedy allowed by state or federal
law.


(5)        Commitments and Contingencies

Economic D pendency

The Board obtains a substantial amount of funds from few entities. A significant reduction in the level of such support,
if this were to occur, might affect the Board's ability to carry out its programs and activities.

Litigation:

There are no pending lawsuits in which the Board is involved which are significant to the financial statements.

(6)       Risk Management

The Board carries commercial insurance for the majority of ri ks of loss, including general liability property and
casualty workers compensation and environmental. Settled claims from these risks have not exceeded commercial
insurance coverage in any of the pastthree fiscal years.




                                                              20

[[page 28]]
SUPPLEMENTAL
 INFORMATION

[[page 29]]
                   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BOARD of the CITY OF WESTMORELAND

                                 Schedule of Cash and Cash Equivalents
                                               All Funds

                                             June 30,2025


                                                                              Carrying
                                                                               Value

General Fund:
  Checking                                                                    $121,075

     Total General Fund                                                        121,075


     Total - All funds                                                        $121,075




                                               22

[[page 30]]
                          INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BOARD of the CITY OF WESTMORELAND

                                  Schedule of Changes in Long-term Debt by Individual Issue

                                                        June 30, 2025

                                                                                                                                     Paid and/or
                                         Original                             Date             Last                         Issued    Matured      Refunded
                                         Amount            Interest            of             Maturity    Outstanding       During     During       During    Outstanding
                                         of Issue            Rate             Issue            Date        7/I/2024         Period     Period       Period     6/30/2025

Governmental Activities

NOTES PAYABLE

 Building Loan                            550,000               6.50%          2010           12/1/2029   $   213,181                $213,181                 $

Total Notes Payable                                                                                       $   213.181   $            $213,181      $          $




                                                                                               23

[[page 31]]
 COMPLIANCE AND
INTERNAL CONTROL

[[page 32]]
                             .JOHN           R.     POOLE, CPA
                               CERTIF'IEO PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT

1 34 NORTHLAKE DRIVE                                                                     (61 5} 822-41 77
HENDERSONVILLE, TN 37075




      INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAl.~
    REPORTING AND ON COMPLIANCE AND OTHER MATTERS BASED ON AN AUDIT OF
                     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMED
             IN ACCORDANCE WITH GOVERNMENT AUDITING STANDARDS

   Board of Directors
   Industrial Development Board ofthe City of Westmoreland
   Westmoreland, Tennessee

   I have audited the financial statements of the governmental activities and the major fund in accordance with
   auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America and the standards applicable to
   financial audits contained in Gm ernment Auditing Standards issued by the Comptroller General of the
   United States, the financial statements ofthe Industrial Development Board ofthe City of Westmoreland
   a component unit of the City of Westmoreland, as of and for tl1 year ended June 30, 2025 and the related
   not s to the financial statements which collectively comprise the Industrial Development Board of the ity
   of Westmoreland's basic financial statements, and have issued ar pol1 thereon dated Novemb r 30 _Q25.

  Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

  In plamling and performing my audit of the financial statements I considered the Industrial Development
  Board of the City of Westmoreland's internal control o er financial reporting internal control as a basis
  for designing the audit procedures that are appropriate in tbe circumstances for the purpose of expr ssing
  an opinion on the financial statements, but not for the purpose of expressing an pinion on the ef.fi cti vencss
  of the Industrial Development Board of the City of Westmoreland s intemal control. Accordingly I d not
  express an opinion on the effectiveness of the Industrial Development Board of the City ofWestmoreland's
  internal control.

  A de:fi iency in internal control exists when th design or operation of a control does not allow management
  or empl yees, in the normal course of p rforrning their assigned ftmctions, to prevent or detect and carr ct
  misstatements on a timely basis. A mateiial wealmess is a deficiency or combination of defici ncies jn
  internal controJ such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the entity 's
  financial tatements will not be prevented, or detected and corrected on a timely basis. A significant
  deficiency is a deficiency or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control that is less severe than a
  material weakness, yet impol1ant enough to merit attention by those charged with governance.

  My consideration of the internal control was for the limited purpose described in the preceding paragraph
  and was not designed to identify all deficiencies in internal control that might be material weaknesses or
  significant deficiencies and therefore, material weaknes es or significant deficiencies may exist that were
  not identified. I did identify certain deficiencies in intemal control, described in the ac ompanying Schedule
  of Findings and Responses as item 2025-001 that I consider to be a material weakness.




                                                       25

[[page 33]]
Compliance and Other Matters
As part of obtaining reasonable assurance about whether the Industrial Development Board of the ity of
Westmoreland s financial statements are fi·ee of material misstatement I performed tests of its compliance
with certain provisions of laws, regulations, contracts and grant agreements, noncompliance with which
could have a direct and material effect on the determination of the frnancial statement ammmts. Hov ever,
providing an opinion on compliance with those provisions was not an objectiv of the audit and
accordingly, I do not express such an opinion. The results of the tests disclosed no instances of
noncompliance or other matters that are requiTed to be reported under Government Auditing tandards.

Response to Finding
The Industrial Development Board of the City of Westmoreland s response to the 'finding identified in the
audit is described in the Schedule of Findings and Responses. The Industrial Developm nt Board of the
City of Westmoreland's response was not subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the
financial statements and, accordingly, I express no opinion on it.

Purpose of Tltis Report
The purpose of this repoti is solely to describe the scope of the te ting of internal control and compliance
and the result of that testing, and not to provide an opinion on tbe effectiveness of the entity's internal
control or on compliance. This report is an integral part of an audit performed in accordance with
Government Auditing Standards in considering the entity s internal control and compliance. A ordingly
this communication is not suitable for any other purpose.




November 30, 2025




                                                    26

[[page 34]]
                       Industrial Development Board of the City of Westmoreland

                                   Schedule of Findings and Responses

                                              June 30, 2025


2025-001 -Separation of Duties

      Conctition: The Industrial Development Board of the City of Westmoreland currently has one
      employee that works in performing the majority of the accounting functions for the Board. Due to
      only having one employee performing the accounting transactions there is currently an inadequate
      segregation of duties.

      Criteria: Generally accepted accounting principles require that accounting functions be adequately
      segregated to ensure that the internal accounting controls are effective.

      Cause: The Board has a limited number of office employees to provide for a proper division of
      duties.

      Effect: The Jisk of errors and irregulariti_es ccurring and not being detected in a timely mann r
      along with the possibility of fraud or misappropriation of assets increases when accounting fi.u1ctions
      are not adequately segregated.

      Recommendation: For adequate separation of duties the employee who writes receipts, prepru·es
      and makes bank deposits, or writes checks should neither reconcile bank statements nor post to the
      cash receipts and disbursements journals.

      Response: "We agree that the staff size will not allow the Board to segregate duties to the optimum
      le el desired. There is only one employee working in the department so it is virtually impossible to
      segregate duties unless more staff could be hired and due to the finances of the Board, we could not
      financially hire additional office help."




                                                   27

[[page 35]]
                         Industrial Development Board ofthe City of Westmoreland

                              Schedule of Disposition of Prior Year Comments

                                                June 30, 2025




Finding Number                      Finding Title                          Status

  2024- 001                       Separation of Duties                     Repeated


The original finding number was 2011-001. The current year finding number is 2025-001.




                                                     28

[[page 36]]
                                         City of Westmoreland
                                               1001 Park Street • P.O. Box 8
                                                 Westmoreland, 1N 37186
                                                                                                 Phone: 615.644.3382
                                                                                                  Fax: 615.644.3950




                               Management's Corrective Action Plan

Audit period: June 30, 2025

The findings from the June 30, 2025, Schedule of Findings and Responses are discussed below.

2025-001 Segregation of Duties (Internal Control)

       Contact person: Meredith Kendall-Jenkins

      Planned Corrective Action: We agree that the staff size will not allow the Board to segregate duties
      to the optimum level desired . There is only one employee working in the department so it is virtually
      impossible to segregate duties unless more staff could be hired and due to the finances of our small
      town we could not financiaUy hire additional office help."

      Anticipated Completion Date: At the current time, due to our size, we do not believe we can fully
      segregate these duties. We will continue to improve and strengthen our internal controls, but we
      cannot give a definite date.




                                                westmorelandtn.gov
                      "The City of Westmoreland is an equal opportunity provider and employer"
