[[page 1]]
CTAS - Payment in Lieu of Tax Agreements




                                                                                              June 27, 2026



  Payment in Lieu of Tax Agreements
  Dear Reader:
  The following document was created from the CTAS website (ctas.tennessee.edu). This website is
  maintained by CTAS staff and seeks to represent the most current information regarding issues relative to
  Tennessee county government.
  We hope this information will be useful to you; reference to it will assist you with many of the questions
  that will arise in your tenure with county government. However, the Tennessee Code Annotated and other
  relevant laws or regulations should always be consulted before any action is taken based upon the
  contents of this document.
  Please feel free to contact us if you have questions or comments regarding this information or any other
  CTAS website material.

  Sincerely,


  The University of Tennessee
  County Technical Assistance Service
  226 Anne Dallas Dudley Boulevard, Suite 400
  Nashville, Tennessee 37219
  615.532.3555 phone
  615.532.3699 fax
  www.ctas.tennessee.edu




                                                                                                       Page 1 of 3

[[page 2]]
                          Table of Contents




Payment in Lieu of Tax Agreements ...................................................... . 3




                                                                                        Page 2 of 3

[[page 3]]
CTAS - Payment in Lieu of Tax Agreements




  Payment in Lieu of Tax Agreements
  Reference Number: CTAS-2472
  Payment in Lieu of Tax (PILOT) agreements can be a very important economic development tool. It is
  important that they are structured correctly and that they are only entered into when it is in the best
  interests of the county.
  Cities and counties are constitutionally prohibited from granting tax abatements to non-exempt persons.
  Thus, such abatements are accomplished by going through an industrial development corporation.
  Property (real or personal) that is included as part of a "project" can be transferred to an industrial
  development corporation, which would make such property tax exempt. The industrial development
  corporation would then lease the property back to the entity involved in the project and upon receiving the
  proper delegation of authority from the creating municipality (which can be a city, county or a combination
  of both), the industrial development corporation could then enter into a PILOT agreement with that entity.
  Industrial development corporations can negotiate, accept or waive payments in lieu of taxes only after
  receiving a formal delegation of authority from their creating municipality(ies). Such municipality can
  require that each negotiated PILOT agreement come back before the legislative body for final approval.
  T.C.A. § 7-53-305.
  No PILOT agreement providing for the acceptance or waiver of payments in lieu of taxes, including any
  renewal or extension of such agreement, may result in a corporation’s lessee making payments in lieu of
  taxes in an amount less than the applicable ad valorem taxes for a period that is greater than twenty (20)
  years plus a reasonable construction or installation period not to exceed three (3) years, unless both the
  commissioner of economic and community development and the comptroller of the treasury have made a
  written determination that the agreement is in the best interest of the state. T.C.A. § 7-53-305.
  Before an industrial development corporation approves a PILOT agreement, the corporation must hold a
  public meeting relating to the proposed agreement after notice is provided by the corporation or governing
  body, as may be required by law, at least five (5) days prior to the date of such public meeting. Such
  notice must include the time, place, and purpose of the public meeting. The corporation must also attach
  to each agreement an analysis of the costs and benefits of the agreement, in such manner and under such
  conditions as shall be prescribed by the commissioner of economic and community development or the
  commissioner's designee. T.C.A. § 7-53-305.
  PILOTs for retail projects must meet certain criteria set forth in T.C.A. § 7-53-305. There are also special
  provisions for PILOTs from industrial development corporations formed by municipalities that do not levy
  their own property tax. T.C.A. § 7-53-305.


  Source URL: https://www.ctas.tennessee.edu/eli/payment-lieu-tax-agreements




                                                                                                         Page 3 of 3
