[[page 1]]
        TENNESSEE GENERAL ASSEMBLY
          FISCAL REVIEW COMMITTEE
                                                      FISCAL MEMORANDUM

                                                      SB 708 - HB 1269

                                                       March 23, 2019

SUMMARY OF ORIGINAL BILL: Exempts certain lessees from property taxes
assessed on land leased from governmental entities if payments in lieu of taxes are made to the
owning governmental entity.



FISCAL IMPACT OF ORIGINAL BILL:

     Other Fiscal Impact -- A recurring shift in local government revenue to state and
     local governmental entities exceeding $2,720,400.



SUMMARY OF AMENDMENT (006478): Deletes and rewrites all language after the
enacting clause such that the substantive changes are: (1) limits the scope of applicability to only
agreements entered into or amended on or after July 1, 2019 regarding land leased from local
government entities; and (2) removes the requirement that payment in lieu of tax (PILOT)
agreements are in an amount equal to the ad valorem taxes due.


FISCAL IMPACT OF BILL WITH PROPOSED AMENDMENT:

     Other Fiscal Impact – A recurring shift of revenue will occur between local
     government entities, the extent and timing of which is unknown. Any net
     impact to local revenue is considered not significant.


     Assumptions for the bill as amended:

        The proposed legislation:
            o Exempts lessees from payment of certain property taxes if the lessee makes
                PILOTs to the owning local governmental entity.
            o Only applies to PILOT agreements entered into or amended on or after July 1,
                2019.
            o Does not require such payments to be in an amount equal to the ad valorem taxes
                due on the property.



                                     SB 708 - HB 1269

[[page 2]]
          To the extent a PILOT agreement is made for less than the amount due for ad valorem
           taxes, it will result in a net decrease in local government revenue, the extent and timing
           of which cannot reasonably be determined. A PILOT agreement with this outcome is
           considered unlikely.
          To the extent a PILOT agreement is made in an amount equal to the ad valorem taxes
           which would have otherwise been due, it will result in a shift between local government
           entities; therefore, the net impact to local government is considered not significant.


CERTIFICATION:

       The information contained herein is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.




                                                              Krista Lee Carsner, Executive Director
/jrh




                                                                                                    2
                                       SB 708 - HB 1269
