[[page 1]]
                Tennessee Code Annotated (TCA) 8-44
             Open Meetings Law (Tennessee Sunshine Law)


                                          TITLE 8
                                        CHAPTER 44
                                      PUBLIC MEETINGS

                                              Part 1
                                        General Provisions.

SECTION
8-44-101.    Policies and decisions as public business.
8-44-102.    Open meetings explanations and definitions.
8-44-103.    Public meeting announcements.
8-44-104.    Public meeting minutes details. Secret votes forbidden.
8-44-105.    Actions in violation and exceptions.
8-44-106.    –Courts have jurisdiction; Enforcement.
8-44-107.    Performing Arts Center Management Corporation.
8-44-108.    Methods of participation.
8-44-109.    Communication by electronic means.


                                              Part 2
                                        Labor Negotiations.

SECTION
8-44-201.    Labor negotiations between public employee union and state or local government.


8-44-101.    Policies and decisions as public business.
(a) The general assembly hereby declares it to be the policy of this state that the formation of
public policy and decisions is public business and shall not be conducted in secret.
(b) This part shall not be construed to limit any of the rights and privileges contained in article
I, § 19 of the Constitution of Tennessee.

8-44-102.    Open meetings explanations and definitions.
(a) All meetings of any governing body are declared to be public meetings open to the public at
all times, except as provided by the Constitution of Tennessee.
(b) (1) "Governing body" means:
(A) The members of any public body which consists of two (2) or more members, with the
authority to make decisions for or recommendations to a public body on policy or
administration and also means a community action agency which administers community
action programs under the provisions of 42 U.S.C. § 2790 [repealed]. Any governing body so
defined by this section shall remain so defined, notwithstanding the fact that such governing
body may have designated itself as a negotiation committee for collective bargaining purposes,
and strategy sessions of a governing body under such circumstances shall be open to the
public at all times;
(B) The board of directors of any nonprofit corporation which contracts with a state agency to
receive community grant funds in consideration for rendering specified services to the public;
provided, that community grant funds comprise at least thirty percent (30%) of the total annual

[[page 2]]
income of such corporation. Except such meetings of the board of directors of such nonprofit
corporation that are called solely to discuss matters involving confidential doctor-patient
relationships, personnel matters or matters required to be kept confidential by federal or state
law or by federal or state regulation shall not be covered under the provisions of this chapter,
and no other matter shall be discussed at such meetings;
(C) The board of directors of any not-for-profit corporation authorized by the laws of Tennessee
to act for the benefit or on behalf of any one (1) or more of counties, cities, towns and local
governments pursuant to the provisions of title 7, chapter 54 or 58. The provisions of this
subdivision (b)(1)(C) shall not apply to any county with a metropolitan form of government and
having a population of four hundred thousand (400,000) or more according to the 1980 federal
census or any subsequent federal census;
(D) The board of directors of any nonprofit corporation which through contract or otherwise
provides a metropolitan form of government having a population in excess of five hundred
thousand (500,000) according to the 1990 federal census or any subsequent federal census
with heat, steam or incineration of refuse;
(E) (i) The board of directors of any association or nonprofit corporation authorized by the laws
of Tennessee that:
(a) Was established for the benefit of local government officials or counties, cities, towns or
other local governments or as a municipal bond financing pool;
(b) Receives dues, service fees or any other income from local government officials or such local
governments that constitute at least thirty percent (30%) of its total annual income; and
(c) Was authorized as of January 1, 1998, under state law to obtain coverage for its employees
in the Tennessee consolidated retirement system.
(ii) The provisions of this subdivision (b)(1)(E) shall not be construed to require the disclosure of
a trade secret or proprietary information held or used by an association or nonprofit
corporation to which this chapter applies. In the event a trade secret or proprietary information
is required to be discussed in an open meeting, the association or nonprofit corporation may
conduct an executive session to discuss such trade secret or proprietary information; provided,
that a notice of the executive session is included in the agenda for such meeting.
(iii) As used in this subdivision (b)(1)(E):
(a) "Proprietary information" means rating information, plans, or proposals; actuarial
information; specifications for specific services provided; and any other similar commercial or
financial information used in making or deliberating toward a decision by employees, agents or
the board of directors of such association or corporation; and which if known to a person or
entity outside the association or corporation would give such person or entity an advantage or
an opportunity to gain an advantage over the association or corporation when providing or
bidding to provide the same or similar services to local governments; and
(b) "Trade secret" means the whole or any portion or phrase of any scientific or technical
information, design, process, procedure, formula or improvement which is secret and of value.
The trier of fact may infer a trade secret to be secret when the owner thereof takes measures to
prevent it from becoming available to persons other than those selected by the owner to have
access thereto for limited purposes;
(2) "Meeting" means the convening of a governing body of a public body for which a quorum is
required in order to make a decision or to deliberate toward a decision on any matter. "Meeting"
does not include any on-site inspection of any project or program.
(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed as to require a chance meeting of two (2) or more
members of a public body to be considered a public meeting. No such chance meetings,
informal assemblages, or electronic communication shall be used to decide or deliberate public
business in circumvention of the spirit or requirements of this part.

[[page 3]]
8-44-103.    Public meeting announcements.
(a) Notice of Regular Meetings. Any such governmental body which holds a meeting previously
scheduled by statute, ordinance, or resolution shall give adequate public notice of such
meeting.
(b) Notice of Special Meetings. Any such governmental body which holds a meeting not
previously scheduled by statute, ordinance, or resolution, or for which notice is not already
provided by law, shall give adequate public notice of such meeting.
(c) The notice requirements of this part are in addition to, and not in substitution of, any other
notice required by law.

8-44-104.    Public meeting minutes details. Secret votes forbidden.
(a) The minutes of a meeting of any such governmental body shall be promptly and fully
recorded, shall be open to public inspection, and shall include, but not be limited to, a record
of persons present, all motions, proposals and resolutions offered, the results of any votes
taken, and a record of individual votes in the event of roll call.
(b) All votes of any such governmental body shall be by public vote or public ballot or public
roll call. No secret votes, or secret ballots, or secret roll calls shall be allowed. As used in this
chapter, "public vote" means a vote in which the "aye" faction vocally expresses its will in
unison and in which the "nay" faction, subsequently, vocally expresses its will in unison.

8-44-105.    Actions in violation and exceptions.
Any action taken at a meeting in violation of this part shall be void and of no effect; provided,
that this nullification of actions taken at such meetings shall not apply to any commitment,
otherwise legal, affecting the public debt of the entity concerned.

8-44-106.    Courts have jurisdiction; Enforcement.
(a) The circuit courts, chancery courts, and other courts which have equity jurisdiction, have
jurisdiction to issue injunctions, impose penalties, and otherwise enforce the purposes of this
part upon application of any citizen of this state.
(b) In each suit brought under this part, the court shall file written findings of fact and
conclusions of law and final judgments, which shall also be recorded in the minutes of the
body involved.
(c) The court shall permanently enjoin any person adjudged by it in violation of this part from
further violation of this part. Each separate occurrence of such meetings not held in
accordance with this part constitutes a separate violation.
(d) The final judgment or decree in each suit shall state that the court retains jurisdiction over
the parties and subject matter for a period of one (1) year from date of entry, and the court
shall order the defendants to report in writing semiannually to the court of their compliance
with this part.

8-44-107.    Performing Arts Center Management Corporation.
The board of directors of the Tennessee Performing Arts Center Management Corporation shall
be subject to, and shall in all respects comply with, all of the provisions made applicable to
governing bodies by this chapter.

8-44-108.      Methods of participation.
(a) As used in this section, unless the context otherwise requires:

[[page 4]]
(1) "Governing body" refers to boards, agencies and commissions of state government, including
state debt issuers as defined in this section and municipal governing bodies. For the purpose of
this section only, "municipal governing bodies" means only those municipal governing bodies
organized under title 6, chapter 18, and having a city commission of three (3) members, and
having a population of more than two thousand five hundred (2,500), according to the 2000
federal census or any subsequent federal census;
(2) "Meeting" has the same definition as defined in § 8-44-102;
(3) "Necessity" means that the matters to be considered by the governing body at that meeting
require timely action by the body, that physical presence by a quorum of the members is not
practical within the period of time requiring action, and that participation by a quorum of the
members by electronic or other means of communication is necessary; and
(4) "State debt issuers" means the Tennessee state funding board, Tennessee local development
authority, Tennessee housing development agency, and Tennessee state school bond authority,
and any of their committees.
(b) (1) A governing body may, but is not required to, allow participation by electronic or other
means of communication for the benefit of the public and the governing body in connection
with any meeting authorized by law; provided, that a physical quorum is present at the location
specified in the notice of the meeting as the location of the meeting.
(2) If a physical quorum is not present at the location of a meeting of a governing body, then in
order for a quorum of members to participate by electronic or other means of communication,
the governing body must make a determination that a necessity exists. Such determination,
and a recitation of the facts and circumstances on which it was based, must be included in the
minutes of the meeting.
(3) If a physical quorum is not present at the location of a meeting of a governing body other
than a state debt issuer, the governing body other than a state debt issuer must file such
determination of necessity, including the recitation of the facts and circumstances on which it
was based, with the office of secretary of state no later than two (2) working days after the
meeting. The secretary of state shall report, no less than annually, to the general assembly as
to the filings of the determinations of necessity. This subdivision (b)(3) shall not apply to the
board of regents, to the board of trustees of the University of Tennessee or to the Tennessee
higher education commission.

(4) Nothing in this section shall prohibit a governing body from complying with § 8-44-109.

(c) (1) Any meeting held pursuant to the terms of this section shall comply with the
requirements of the Open Meetings Law, codified in this part, and shall not circumvent the
spirit or requirements of that law.
(2) Notices required by the Open Meetings Law, or any other notice required by law, shall state
that the meeting will be conducted permitting participation by electronic or other means of
communication.
(3) Each part of a meeting required to be open to the public shall be audible to the public at the
location specified in the notice of the meeting as the location of the meeting. Each member
participating electronically or otherwise must be able to simultaneously hear each other and
speak to each other during the meeting. Any member participating in such fashion shall
identify the persons present in the location from which the member is participating.
(4) Any member of a governing body not physically present at a meeting shall be provided,
before the meeting, with any documents that will be discussed at the meeting, with
substantially the same content as those documents actually presented.
(5) All votes taken during a meeting held pursuant to the terms of this section shall be by roll
call vote.

[[page 5]]
(6) A member participating in a meeting by this means is deemed to be present in person at the
meeting for purposes of voting, but not for purposes of determining per diem eligibility.
However, a member may be reimbursed expenses of such electronic communication or other
means of participation.

8-44-109.    Communication by electronic means.
(a) A governing body may, but is not required to, allow electronic communication between
members by means of a forum over the Internet only if the governing body:
(1) Ensures that the forum through which the electronic communications are conducted is
available to the public at all times other than that necessary for technical maintenance or
unforeseen technical limitations;
(2) Provides adequate public notice of the governing body's intended use of the electronic
communication forum;
(3) Controls who may communicate through the forum;
(4) Controls the archiving of the electronic communications to ensure that the electronic
communications are publicly available for at least one (1) year after the date of the
communication; provided, that access to the archived electronic communications is user-
friendly for the public; and
(5) Provides reasonable access for members of the public to view the forum at the local public
library, the building where the governing body meets or other public building.
(b) Electronic communications posted to a forum shall not substitute for decision making by
the governing body in a meeting held in accordance with this part. Communications between
members of a governing body posted to a forum complying with this section shall be deemed to
be in compliance with the open meetings laws compiled in this part.
(c) Prior to a governing body initially utilizing a forum to allow electronic communications by
its members that meets the requirements of this section, including the public notice required
in subsection (a), the governing body shall file a plan with the office of open records counsel.
The plan shall describe how the governing body will ensure compliance with subsection (a).
Within thirty (30) days of receipt of the plan, the office of open records counsel shall
acknowledge receipt of the plan and shall report whether or not the plan and the proposed
actions comply with subsection (a). If the office determines that compliance with subsection (a)
has not been met, the office shall provide written comments regarding the plan to the governing
body. Until such time as the governing body complies with the written comments provided by
the office and the office issues a report of compliance, the governing body shall not be allowed
to establish or utilize such forum. This subsection (c) shall not apply to any governing body
that had established a forum pursuant to this section prior to May 7, 2009.
(d) No member participating in an electronic communication pursuant to this section is
deemed to be eligible for per diem for such participation.
(e) As used in this section, "governing body" means the elected governing body of a county,
city, metropolitan form of government or school board.

8-44-201     Labor negotiations between public employee union and state or local
             government.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of Tennessee law to the contrary, labor negotiations
between representatives of public employee unions or associations and representatives of a state
or local governmental entity shall be open to the public, whether or not the negotiations by the
state or local governmental entity are under the direction of the legislative, executive or judicial
branch of government.

[[page 6]]
(b) Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to require that planning or strategy
sessions of either the union committee or the governmental entity committee, meeting
separately or with the entity it represents, be open to the public.
(c) Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to grant recognition rights of any sort.
(d) Both sides shall decide jointly and announce in advance of any such labor negotiations
where such meetings shall be held.
[Acts 1979, ch. 41, § 1; T.C.A., § 8-4421; Acts 2009, ch. 293, § 1.]
