
gallatintn.gov
GALLATIN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AGENCY NAMES EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
4–5 minutes

City Newsroom Posted on June 21, 2024

GALLATIN, TN – The Gallatin Economic Development Agency (GEDA) has announced that Rosemary Bates has been appointed as Executive Director. This decision by the agency's

Board of Directors follows Bates' service as Interim Director since March. The permanent move will allow GEDA to continue its economic momentum with a proven and experienced leader who is mission-focused on helping Gallatin prosper. "Having raised her sons here, I know Rosemary is passionate about creating opportunities for both businesses and residents to grow," said Gallatin Mayor Paige Brown. "Her leadership has already made a significant impact, and we look forward to seeing how she will continue to contribute to Gallatin's business community."

Bates, a thirty-year Gallatin resident, first joined the agency in 2015. Under her tenure, she has overseen $200 million in infrastructure projects and successfully attracted major companies like Meta. Her workforce development experience with Gallatin's educational institutions and business community comes at a pivotal time as GEDA celebrates its 25th anniversary. Gallatin is in an enviable position for more economic growth and with Bates now at the helm, she will be intentional about the companies the agency recruits to ensure the city evolves thoughtfully.

"Economic development is a competitive sport. While we aim to maintain our success, we know that what worked a decade ago doesn't necessarily work today," Bates said. "Gallatin's economy has been consistently stable through a recession and a pandemic. This means we get to be selective in our recruitment efforts, allowing us to serve our diverse and existing industries for their continued commitment to Gallatin.”

Bates initially joined the City as its Special Projects Director for the Mayor’s Office in 2007. Prior to that, Bates served in roles with the Tennessee State Senate and the Tennessee Department of Tourist Development. A Tennessee Certified Economic Developer (TCEcD) from the UT Center for Industrial Services, Bates holds professional credentials from the TVA Rural Leadership Institute, TVA Workforce Institute, Volunteer State Community College, and Middle Tennessee State University. Additionally, Bates' background as an Emmy Award-winning journalist adds a unique perspective to her role in public service.

"We couldn’t think of a better individual to lead the city’s economic development efforts," said GEDA Board Chairman Tim Hertel. "Rosemary is well respected among our businesses, non-profits and educational partners, and we are confident that Gallatin will continue to thrive as she carries out our organization’s shared vision."

About the Gallatin Economic Development Agency GEDA is a vital department within the City of Gallatin, established in 1999 with a singular mission – to foster the growth and sustainability of a resilient and diverse economy. Over the past decade, the agency has excelled at its mission. Since 2005, GEDA has facilitated corporate and manufacturing projects resulting in $1.5+ billion capital investment, nearly 5,000 new jobs, and 8,400 indirect jobs. Additionally, the agency has been responsible for some of the most significant economic development projects in the Greater Nashville area including Beretta USA, Meta, Gap Inc. and Simpson Strong Tie. Learn more at GallatinGetsIt.com

###

