Main Street Media of Tennessee / Gallatin News | By Chris Gregory | June 12, 2025 | Photos: Janet Scott
URL: https://mainstreetmediatn.com/articles/gallatinnews/community-help-sought-to-complete-new-gallatin-daycare/
Retrieved 2026-08-18.

---

Community help sought to complete new Gallatin Daycare
By Chris Gregory
on
June 12, 2025
JANET SCOTT
Gallatin News
The Gallatin Daycare Center’s bus. JANET SCOTT
Some of the original brick is being maintained in the former Union High School, which will now house Gallatin Daycare. JANET SCOTT
One of the large classrooms under construction in the new facility. JANET SCOTT
From left: Gallatin Daycare II Site Director Chelsea Hoskins, Executive Director Linda Boyers and Site Director Samantha Boyers. JANET SCOTT
The new Gallatin Daycare will move into a renovated wing of Gallatin’s Shalom Zone once construction is complete. However, Gallatin Daycare Executive Director Linda Boyers is seeking help from the community to finish the project — by hosting kitchen drives.
In 2024, Gallatin Daycare received a $500,000 grant from the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development (TNECD) along with a $110,000 grant from Shalom Zone and another $550,000 from Gallatin’s Industrial Development Board (IDB).
The TNECD grant came from remaining American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) funds and was a response to the State of Tennessee’s mission to increase daycare funding.
“The grant requirements were very specific, but we met them all,” Boyers said, while sitting in an unfinished room at the table where monthly planning meetings are held. “First of all, the grant would only be given to a licensed and fully operational daycare, which we have been since 1969. Secondly, the new daycare had to be placed in an existing building — and for us, that was Shalom Zone.”
Located inside the former Union High School, Shalom Zone has completed one part of a three-phase renovation project.
“When we took over the building in the early 2000s, this building was on the verge of being condemned,” Shalom Zone Executive Director Bethany Sullivan said. “So having a wing renovated for the Gallatin Daycare is beneficial for us and moves us along in our building restoration plan.”
Chelsea Hoskins, site director for the new facility, said that the renovation was taking more money than originally thought.
“For instance, the room we’re sitting in will be an all-purpose room — and the cost to restore it exceeded what the grant could cover,” she said. “So, we removed it from the grant altogether and raised our own money for the restoration.”
The all-purpose room is a vital piece of the project, per Boyers.
“This is a room that can be used as a separate playroom for the children, as a meeting place for staff or for nutrition or parenting classes,” she said. “It will also be available for Shalom Zone to use. It’s a necessary space — but an expensive one.”
Boyers and Hoskins were able to get separate funding from several sources, including the Carolyn Smith Foundation and Charles Bone, a prominent figure in Gallatin known for his significant contributions to the community and a former county attorney.
“Also, the Memorial Foundation will be supplying money for salaries at the beginning,” Boyers said. “And Gallatin’s Meta Data Center has provided funding for STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) playground equipment as well as giving us a grant for our IT (Information Technology) needs.”
Now Boyers and Hoskins are turning their fundraising efforts to the community at large.
In a cover letter for a fundraising packet, Boyers wrote, “The grant money we have received has very specific usage stipulations, leaving five key areas drastically underfunded. One way you could help is by holding a ‘Kitchen Supply Drive.’ By hosting a drive, your organization will play a vital role in helping us provide a fully equipped and nurturing environment for the children and families we serve.”
The Gallatin Daycare was the first in the area to welcome minority children and continues to open its doors to low-income families, foster children and families experiencing homelessness. The leaders are designing the new facility with that mission in mind.
“We want our daycare to feel like a safe haven,” Boyers said. “We have chosen colors that are calming and feel like home — it’s called the ‘everyone is welcome’ color scheme. Because everyone is welcome here.”
The new facility has three double classrooms, a multi-purpose room, bathrooms, a playground and a large two-area kitchen.
“On our kitchen list, the biggest need right now is an oven — we need a conventional or double-stack electric — so if anyone has a restaurant that’s going out of business, please contact us,” Hoskins said. “The cost for a new one is between $6,000 and $14,000.”
The kitchen list has many affordable items as well, ranging from dishwashing liquid to 30-gallon trashcans.
“We have created a kitchen supply list on Amazon, which can be accessed by a QR code,” Boyers said. “Anyone interested in helping or who would like to host a kitchen drive should contact us and we will get a packet of information into your hands.”
The Gallatin Daycare facility, located at 108 Southpark Circle, is currently enrolling children.
“Right now, people who apply are either being enrolled at Southpark Circle or they’re being put on the wait list for this location,” said Samantha Boyers, Site Director of the Southpark Circle facility. “And we — Gallatin Daycare I — will remain open. The daycare inside Shalom Zone will be Gallatin Daycare II, which is great because we are bursting at the seams.”
The opening date has been set for Jan. 5, 2026.
“We have our Big Boo Bash in October and our Children’s Christmas in December, and then we’ll open Gallatin Daycare II in January,” Samantha Boyers said.
Anyone wishing to enroll a child or help with a kitchen drive should contact Gallatin Daycare by calling (615) 452-2518 or by emailing GallatinDayCare@gmail.com.
