[[page 1]]
Rosemary Bates/Capstone Paper/March, 2021




                    Problems Can Lead to Prosperity with a Strategic Plan:
          A Collaborative, Targeted Approach to Business Recruitment in Gallatin

                                            Rosemary Bates

                                             March, 2021

                                 Beth Phillips, Capstone Advisor




                                                                                   1|Page

[[page 2]]
Rosemary Bates/Capstone Paper/March, 2021


       Having a strategic plan for an economic development agency helps maximize resources

and leads to big payoffs, even if it means saying no to projects that the agency would have

pursued in the past. A strategic plan helps identify problems, while providing a path to

prosperity.

                                            The Problem

       The City of Gallatin Economic Development Agency (GEDA) had a problem. It was

spring of 2017 and the city’s unemployment rate was dropping. It went from 3.4% in March,

2017 to 2.8% in May, 2017. (Over the next three years, it fluctuated between 3.6% and 2.6%

until the Pandemic took its toll in April, 2020.) This might not seem like a problem to some

economic developers, but it was causing anxiety for GEDA because Gallatin’s existing industries

were having a hard time finding employees. It also made prospect recruitment challenging

because GEDA could not guarantee an immediate workforce for an industry requiring 250 more

employees.

       In 2017, because of the drop in the unemployment rate, GEDA staff and the board were

at a pinch point. The agency needed to take better stock of its resources and determine how best

to use them. In the first 17 years of existence, GEDA had been mostly reactive in its business

recruitment efforts. It responded to any and all RFIs where it met the prospect’s initial criteria,

regardless of the type of industry and the number of employees those prospects required.

       During this same time, the City of Gallatin was beginning to experience a different pinch-

point. Gallatin’s population was growing by 270 per month – nearly nine people per day. The

215-year-old city had never seen this rapid growth. The Mayor and department heads routinely

set annual budget priorities for operations and capital expenditures, but that process was all about

line items, not so much about an overall growth plan for the city and its resources.

                                                                                            2|Page

[[page 3]]
Rosemary Bates/Capstone Paper/March, 2021


       By 2018, more than 21,500 people worked in Gallatin. The daytime population doubled

because nearly twice as many people were driving into Gallatin for work as were leaving. Yet,

with Gallatin’s labor shed reach of nine counties, plus the significant population growth in the

city itself, existing industries still had a hard time finding both skilled and entry-level employees.

       Everyone involved knew that the population and business growth meant increased

services and added infrastructure, which meant the city would need additional revenue. Yes, the

city receives property taxes. Yes, the city receives a percentage of sales taxes. Yes, the city is

aggressive in applying for grants. But these pots of money have to grow, too, as the population

increases.

       It was clear that the City of Gallatin and the GEDA must work together, along with a

broad base of community stakeholders, to address these challenges and accomplish community

economic development goals. Leaders recognized that a collaborative, strategic planning

approach was needed to guide business development efforts and ensure that community

resources were used most effectively.

       The GEDA was established 20 years ago as a department of Gallatin City Government,

with the mission to help assure a resilient and diverse economy in Gallatin. When the GEDA was

formed, the citizen committee that set the framework for the agency insisted that it have a board

of directors as a layer of insulation from politics and to provide expertise as business owners and

leaders in the community. The board helps set policy and direction for the agency, hires the

executive director, and recommends a budget to the Gallatin City Council.

       While GEDA is charged with expanding the tax base, it is ironically the city department

with the smallest budget. The agency’s budget in the 2018-2019 fiscal year, excluding salaries,

was $87,500. GEDA’s budget is funded 100% by the city. The agency has a staff of three:

                                                                                            3|Page

[[page 4]]
Rosemary Bates/Capstone Paper/March, 2021


Executive Director, Special Projects Director, and Existing Industries Manager. The Special

Projects Director works out of the GEDA offices, but splits her time between GEDA and the

Mayor.

                              Developing the Gallatin Strategic Plan

         Community leaders agreed that the first step toward assessing and maximizing resources

was the development of a strategic plan for the City of Gallatin. The Mayor, with approval of

City Council, hired a consulting firm to develop Gallatin government’s first strategic plan.


         GEDA staff became intimately involved in the city’s strategic planning process, in part

because GEDA’s special projects director was the Mayor’s point-person for the city plan.

Another reason GEDA was a key participant refers back to its mission – a resilient and diverse

economy, with the underlying understanding that GEDA is responsible for expanding the tax

base to pay for the growth.


         The city’s strategic planning took a year. The city held meetings with the public, key

stakeholders, the city council, and the planning commission. The consultant also had numerous

communications with city departments, including surveys, individual department head meetings,

and group meetings with all departments present.


         The Gallatin Strategic Plan was completed in June, 2018, and adopted by the city council

that month. The plan outlines the community vision and values, issues of importance to the city,

five key strategic goals and commitments, and priority actions to move goals forward. Goal two

of that plan was of particular relevance to the mission of GEDA; stating, “Gallatin should

continue to support and grow its existing economic base while pursuing new markets that offer

competitive salaries and stable employment for citizens.”

                                                                                           4|Page

[[page 5]]
Rosemary Bates/Capstone Paper/March, 2021


                      GEDA Takes a Deeper Dive into Strategic Planning

       With impetus from the city’s strategic plan and all the information gathered during that

process, GEDA staff and board chose to immediately develop a GEDA-specific strategic plan

that would align with and support strategies, commitments, and actions of Goal 2 of the Gallatin

Strategic Plan. GEDA hired its own consultant to facilitate the plan. GEDA staff and board

invited the Mayor, as well as community stakeholders to participate in the process.

       This group first acknowledged the success of the GEDA team that had grown the

industrial base from January, 2016 through June, 2018. GEDA helped add more than 3,500

manufacturing and distribution jobs with a CapEx totaling more than $200-million.

       Then the group identified key issues to address in a GEDA-specific strategic plan:

           •   Available workforce

           •   Entry-level wages (as charged by the city’s strategic plan)

           •   Best use of GEDA resources, including staff and the budget

                            GEDA Strategic Plan Year 1 (2018-2019)

       With the guidance of the facilitator, the GEDA staff, board members, the mayor, and

stakeholders spent a full day discussing and debating GEDA’s path. This input was refined into

GEDA’s first strategic plan, which was adopted by the Board and shared with the City Council.

       This first strategic plan had five over-arching goals, eight sub-headings, and 40 bullet

points. The top two priority goals were:

   1. Build Up from the Current Economic Base

   2. Expand Workforce Training Partnerships



                                                                                          5|Page

[[page 6]]
Rosemary Bates/Capstone Paper/March, 2021


       While establishing the plan and setting goals, the GEDA Board and Mayor endorsed

staff’s idea to strategically focus GEDA’s response to RFIs. GEDA would no longer try to win a

site visit on every RFI where Gallatin met the criteria. Instead, GEDA would only respond to

prospects that were technology focused, doing advanced manufacturing, or were corporate

offices. GEDA would also be cautious about responding to prospects indicating they needed 200

or more employees to open. And, the agency became more emphatic about higher entry-level

wages with a preference of $15/hour minimum.

       Making these adjustments also meant educating city council members, community

stakeholders, and some economic development partners about the community’s strategic

economic development priorities. It was imperative that they understand a “big win” no longer

meant landing an industry with hundreds of jobs simply because of the job numbers.

       It was now more important to consider the quality of those jobs and whether they

elevated entry level wages. GEDA had to consider a prospect’s potential impact on existing

industry partners. GEDA did not want to bring in a new company with hundreds of jobs that

would cannibalize the employees at existing companies. Consequently, GEDA’s responses to

RFIs dropped by more than 50% after adopting Strategic Plan Year 1.

       Despite responding to fewer RFIs, GEDA landed a corporate headquarters and a regional

headquarters, bringing 400 office, sales and technical jobs. Additionally, a national company

announced construction of a branch in Gallatin promising 82 highly skilled jobs. Four of the

city’s existing industries expanded, adding 50 jobs. And, Archer Datacenters, a small endeavor,

announced it had selected Gallatin for its first co-location data center. The CapEx on Archer

alone was $21,500,000.



                                                                                         6|Page

[[page 7]]
Rosemary Bates/Capstone Paper/March, 2021


       To address priority #2 – “Expand Workforce Training Partnerships”, GEDA focused on

training for technology jobs. GEDA partnered with the Nashville Area Technology Council and

Volunteer State Community College in Gallatin to launch Apprenti-TN (now called Go Tech).

Participants in Apprenti-TN earn IT certifications in eight weeks that normally take two years to

achieve.

                        GEDA’s Plan Targets Data Center Recruitment

       One reason GEDA focused on tech jobs was the lure of a large-scale data center campus.

In the year preceding GEDA’s first strategic plan, the agency had identified a piece of property it

thought ideal for data centers.

       The property was adjacent to a TVA substation that could provide the intense electric

load required of a large-scale data center compound. It was also adjacent to the Gallatin

Industrial Center which meant water, sewer and gas lines could easily be run to the property.

       GEDA did get a nibble on the property in 2017 with Project Skillet, identified as a

Fortune 200 company looking to build a data center. Project Skillet morphed into Project Wool

Hawk. GEDA, the TN Department of Economic and Community Development, TVA and

Project Wool Hawk furiously exchanged information through September, 2017. Then the project

when silent. GEDA was deflated when it thought it had lost Project Wool Hawk. But, the agency

and board decided to doubled-down on efforts to land a large scale data center. Doing so would

require a consistent tech workforce pipeline.

       Throughout the 2018-2019 fiscal year, GEDA consistently referred to its strategic plan.

While the plan kept GEDA focused, it also, at times, overwhelmed the staff. The number of

over-arching goals, subheadings, and the 40 bullet points of items and intentions were daunting.


                                                                                            7|Page

[[page 8]]
Rosemary Bates/Capstone Paper/March, 2021


       Despite feeling overwhelmed, by the end of Strategic Plan Year 1, GEDA staff and board

members realized they had completed, or were in process on, 31 of the goals/tasks/ideas. The

nine bullet-points to which GEDA paid little attention were still valuable in that they helped

relieve pressure in year two.

                            GEDA Strategic Plan Year 2 (2019-2020)

       GEDA reconvened the strategic planning group in August, 2019. The group reviewed

results of its first year, acknowledging that it had a string of development wins – among them,

the four new companies, four expansions, more than 550 new, higher-paying jobs, and the

Apprenti-TN program.

       However, the group had to acknowledge that success created challenges. Landing a new

company on city-owned property in the industrial center left GEDA with only 41-acres of city-

owned, industrial-zoned land – and 30 of those acres were under option.

       After reviewing year one, the strategic planning group took a different approach with its

second-year plan. The plan cut the over-arching goals to three:

           •   Purchase More Land

           •   Tell Our Story Better

           •   Develop the Workforce

       Bullet points dropped from 40 to 13. They included:
           o Identify more sites and develop a path to purchase them

           o Leverage relationships with Vol State, TCAT, high schools – identify key point

               persons to support the businesses’ workforce needs

           o Continue to focus on tech jobs


                                                                                          8|Page

[[page 9]]
Rosemary Bates/Capstone Paper/March, 2021


                                   Re-enter Project Wool Hawk

        In the meantime, Project Wool Hawk returned. Gallatin was still in the running for a

large-scale data center. But this time around, GEDA was much more cautious in its expectations.

        Project Wool Hawk visited Gallatin nearly every month and was communicating nearly

every work day. Wool Hawk’s interest grew from the 342-acre parcel to a collection of four

parcels totaling 800-plus acres. GEDA now was told that Project Wool Hawk was a Fortune 100

company that would bring a minimum of 100 jobs averaging $80,000/year.

        By narrowing the agency’s focus even further in its Strategic Plan Year 2, GEDA’s

Executive Director had the freedom to spend as much time as needed on Project Wool Hawk.

And, it required a lot of time. One of the parcels was in an irrevocable trust with four heirs. Part

of the 800 acres was in another utility district that did not have the capacity to serve Wool Hawk.

All the properties had to be annexed and rezoned. There was a lot to untangle, a lot to tie up, and

a lot to coordinate.

        GEDA still answered certain RFIs and considered companies that contacted the agency

directly. One company was Project Mohawk, a family-owned company wanting to expand. At

first, the GEDA team was not sure Mohawk fit the strategic plan. Project Mohawk produces

fabric. (It is not related to the carpet company.) GEDA’s Executive Director flew to Project

Mohawk’s hometown to see first-hand what they make and how they make it.

        He discovered that Project Mohawk makes high-tech fabrics for NASA, the aerospace

industry, and for medical use. Mohawk’s plan was to build a new facility for a new piece of

machinery that does finishing work. They anticipated needing 25 to 40 highly-skilled employees

with an entry-level wage of $18/hour. They fit within GEDA’s plan.


                                                                                            9|Page

[[page 10]]
Rosemary Bates/Capstone Paper/March, 2021


                                      Diverting from the Plan

       One project arose that did not fit the strategic plan. GEDA named it Project Ice. It is a

commercial/residential venture. While the GEDA team had worked on retail/commercial

recruitment during the last three years, Project Ice was atypical for GEDA to champion.

       Project Ice plans to bring two sheets of ice to Gallatin in conjunction with the NHL

Nashville Predators. It includes restaurant pads, a hotel, an outdoor entertainment venue, and

additional sports facilities. Additionally, Project Ice wants a TIF – something the GEDA staff

facilitates between the developer and the Gallatin Industrial Development Board.

       In choosing to champion Project Ice, the GEDA staff and board referred to the agency’s

mission – provide a resilient and diverse economy. Plus, having the Nashville Predators

associated with a venue in Gallatin would be an additional selling point in prospect recruitment.

                           The Pandemic Hits with Surprising Results

       The GEDA team was rocking right along from July, 2019 thru February, 2020. Then,

COVID-19 disrupted the world. Four of Gallatin’s industries shut down – all tier-one automotive

manufacturers. Others were confused about their status as essential services. City government

encouraged people to stay home. Then the county mayor issued a stay-at-home mandate for non-

essential workers. Plus, there were the federal government’s relief programs.

       GEDA staff shifted heavily into customer service. Each day, all three staff members

communicated by phone and email with existing industries. Staff took advantage of Zoom

meetings so that, as a group, GEDA’s industry partners could share challenges and gather ideas.




                                                                                         10 | P a g e

[[page 11]]
Rosemary Bates/Capstone Paper/March, 2021


        Surprising to GEDA, during the initial months of the pandemic, several companies

wanted to move to Gallatin. GEDA had expected its prospect recruitment to dwindle. It did not.

It multiplied.

        In the first months of the pandemic, Projects Wool Hawk and Mohawk intensified.

GEDA also began working with a building materials company, a unique recycling company, a

roofing company, the expansion of two existing companies, and the relocation of a small

corporate office to Gallatin.

        Gallatin’s unemployment rate did take a big dive, going from 3% in August, 2019, to a

high of 17% in April, 2020, then dropping to 11.1% in June, 2020. By early summer of 2020, all

existing industries were back at full-force and some had increased their staffing because demand

for their goods was up. Yet, some of Gallatin’s industries were still having a hard time finding

employees.

        Even though Gallatin was in the throes of a pandemic, the city’s economy was thriving.

Every month during the pandemic, sales tax collections came in higher than the same month the

year before.

                                The Big Announcement: Facebook

        In July, 2020, just one week from convening staff and stakeholders to develop Strategic

Plan Year 3, GEDA officially announced the identity and scope of Project Wool Hawk. It is

Facebook, a Fortune 50 company with an obvious international following and name recognition.

Facebook selected Gallatin for its 13th data center complex in the U.S. and 17th worldwide.

        Facebook’s initial CapEx investment will exceed $800-million. It will become the largest

revenue stream in Sumner County. There will be an initial 100 on-campus, full-time jobs with a


                                                                                        11 | P a g e

[[page 12]]
Rosemary Bates/Capstone Paper/March, 2021


starting minimum salary of $80,000. The facilities will be under construction for several years,

with the first to open in 2023. The project also added 1,200 construction jobs and 400 electrical

jobs. The construction and electrical jobs alone are anticipated to remain for several years.

       GEDA’s strategy for a large-scale data center campus proved successful. Gallatin landed

Facebook, one of the single largest business investments on record anywhere in Tennessee.

                            GEDA Strategic Plan Year 3 (2020-2021)

       Because the Facebook data center campus is truly large-scale, the group developing

Strategic Plan Year 3 marked that goal “done.” Gallatin now had its limit of data centers it could

comfortably support with existing infrastructure.

       The group did choose to carry forward into year three the over-arching goal of

Communication/Tell Our Story Better. The pandemic had propelled GEDA to post more

information on social media which grew the agency’s audiences on Facebook, Linkedin,

Instagram and Youtube. The virus had actually helped GEDA’s relationships with existing

industries and the agency’s social media reach.

       GEDA’s Facebook followers increased by 15% in FY ’20. By February, 2021, followers

increased by 29%. Linkedin visits in some months shot up more than 1000%. On Linkedin,

GEDA went from 12 followers to 257 in the last five months of FY ‘20. The highest performing

posts include video produced by GEDA, some of them garnering more than 30,000 views. The

agency added dozens of videos to its Youtube channel where it is finding success in drawing

applicants to available jobs at existing industries. In Strategic Plan Year 3, GEDA is focusing on

business-specific marketing with even more emphasis on video production, as well as workforce

recruitment.


                                                                                          12 | P a g e

[[page 13]]
Rosemary Bates/Capstone Paper/March, 2021


       Another over-arching goal in year two the group carried over into year three is Acquire

More Land that the city would own for industrial or business park development. GEDA has

identified and met with owners of properties in various, distinctively different locations in

Gallatin. Some properties are conducive to only industrial, some to a business park, and some are

very marketable locations for corporate headquarters. Gallatin has the only lakefront site in

middle Tennessee for a corporate headquarters.

       There was consensus among the group formulating Strategic Plan Year 3 that GEDA

would hone in on recruiting research and development companies, corporate offices,

environmentally conscious manufacturing, and one outlier – GEDA would also focus on

investment in the core downtown to encourage rejuvenation. Staff found that the city’s historic

downtown square is a bonus when companies considered quality of place.

       The remaining two over-arching goals for Strategic Plan Year 3 are also consistent with

year two: Support Existing Businesses and Develop Our Workforce. GEDA anticipates these

being perpetual goals.

       Because of the pandemic, GEDA could not hold its annual luncheon for Manufacturing

Day where the agency honors local industry partners. Instead, staff put together gift boxes

packed with items made in Gallatin, including items from local industries. In delivering them,

staff was touched by the outpouring of thanks the companies gave for all of GEDA’s work to

help them during the pandemic. Existing industries overwhelmingly confirmed that GEDA’s

intense focus on them had cemented relationships, grown their confidence in GEDA, and gave

GEDA personal testimonials for recruitment videos.

       GEDA’s workforce efforts will continue with the local schools, colleges and TCATs.

GEDA has already produced a video that the director of Career &Technical Education for

                                                                                          13 | P a g e

[[page 14]]
Rosemary Bates/Capstone Paper/March, 2021


Sumner County Schools is using throughout the high schools to educate students on available

career paths in manufacturing.

       One of the outlier projects, Project Ice, is coming to fruition. The development has gained

approval of the Gallatin Planning Commission and the Gallatin City Council. It next goes to the

county planning commission and then the full county commission. If approved there, GEDA will

initiate the TIF process. This project may be a full go by July, 2021.

       As Strategic Plan Year 3 progresses, GEDA has developed what it believes to be a unique

marketing tool to recruit more and larger corporate headquarters to the city. The goal is to have

predominantly white-collar jobs with entry level salaries at $60,000 and up. GEDA is pursuing

both new headquarters and re-locations, as well as satellite headquarters.

                                            The Prosperity

       A strategic plan and sticking to it, but being flexible, has proved a very successful path

for GEDA. Having permission to say no to RFIs that don’t fit within the plan creates more focus

and time for the companies Gallatin does want. The plan also allows for those outliers – like

Project Ice or Downtown Rejuvenation. Without strategic planning, the Gallatin Economic

Development Agency most likely would not have achieved the addition of thousands of jobs

with elevated entry-level pay, along with more than $1-billion in CapEx.

       Facebook alone immediately put Gallatin in a realm of consideration it has never

experienced. Inquiries from companies in line with the strategic plan are calling GEDA instead

of the agency reaching out to them first.

       By using a collaborative, targeted approach to business recruitment, GEDA addresses

problems and strengthens a path of prosperity for Gallatin.


                                                                                         14 | P a g e

[[page 15]]
Rosemary Bates/Capstone Paper/March, 2021


Resources:

   •   Monthly unemployment rate:

       https://ycharts.com/indicators/gallatin_tn_unemployment_rate#:~:text=Gallatin%2C%20

       TN%20Unemployment%20Rate%20is,long%20term%20average%20of%206.09%25.

   •   Gallatin Certified Special Census 2016

   •   Greater Nashville Regional Council population growth trend data

   •   Gallatin Building Code Department monthly and annual reports

   •   Gallatin Public Works annual reports

   •   City of Gallatin Strategic Plan:

       https://www.gallatintn.gov/DocumentCenter/View/3880/Gallatin-Strategic-Plan-PDF

   •   Sumner County Assessor of Property valuations

   •   ESRI

   •   University of Tennessee Boyd Center

   •   Nashville Area Technology Council

   •   Volunteer State Community College

   •   Gallatin Economic Development Agency reports

   •   Facebook and Linkedin analytics

   •   Nashville Business Journal




                                                                                 15 | P a g e
